Älplermagronen (also spelled Älplermakkaronen, lit. "Alpine herdsman’s macaroni" in German) is a dish from the Alpine regions of Switzerland, consisting of pasta, potatoes, cream, cheese, and onions. The name is made up of "Älpler" as a designation for the Alpine herder and "Magronen", which was taken as a loan word from the Italian word maccheroni. Appam also known as aappam; (Malayalam: അപ്പം) or āppa (Sinhala: ආප්ප) is a type of thin pancake originating from South India and Sri Lanka. It is made with fermented rice batter and coconut milk, traditionally cooked in an appachatti, a deep pan similar in shape to a wok. It is part of Kerala and Tamil cuisine found in the Indian states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and in Sri Lanka. Appam is most frequently served for breakfast or dinner, often with a topping such as an egg. Apple cakes are cakes in which apples feature as a main flavour and ingredient. Such cakes incorporate apples in a variety of forms, including diced, pureed, or stewed, and can include common additions like raisins, nuts, and 'sweet' spices such as cinnamon or nutmeg. They are a common and popular dessert worldwide, thanks to millennia of apple cultivation in Asia and Europe, and their widespread introduction and propagation throughout the Americas during the Columbian Exchange and colonisation. As a result, apple desserts, including cakes, have a huge number of variations.

Apples are also used in other cakes to add moisture and sweetness, often as a partial substitute for refined sugar. Apple strudel (German: Apfelstrudel; Czech: štrúdl; Yiddish: שטרודל) is a traditional Viennese strudel, a popular pastry in Austria, Bavaria, the Czech Republic, Northern Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, and other countries in Europe that once belonged to the Austro-Hungarian Empire (1867–1918). Arrosticini are a class of traditional dishes of skewered grilled meat characteristic of Molisana and Abruzzese cuisine (from the Italian regions of Abruzzo and Molise).[1] Arrosticini (rustelle or arrustelle in the local dialects; also known as spiedini or spiducci) are typically made from mutton or lamb cut in chunks and pierced by a skewer. It is cooked on a brazier with a typically elongated shape, called furnacella, which resembles a gutter.

There are two main kinds of arrosticini: those made industrially, consisting of cubical chunks of meat with a side of 1 cm (0.4 inches) on skewers with a maximum length of 10 cm (4 inches); and those made by hand, for which the meat is cut with a knife in chunks of different sizes, alternated on the skewer with pieces of ovine fat. Arrosticini originate from the food consumed by shepherds and other inhabitants of the mountainous areas in Abruzzo within the villages of Castilenti, Civitella Casanova, Carpineto and Villa Celiera who were accustomed to eating even less refined food than hard sheep meat.

Arrosticini are often accompanied by slices of bread soaked in extra-virgin olive oil (pane 'onde). The traditional beverage accompaniment is Montepulciano d'Abruzzo wine. Traditionally, arrosticini are eaten by pulling the meat off the skewer piece by piece using one's teeth. Arroz con pollo (Spanish for rice with chicken) is a traditional dish of Latin America. It typically consists of chicken cooked with rice, onions, saffron, and a potential plethora of other grains or vegetables. In the Dominican Republic it is alternately called locrio de pollo, and in Saint Martin it is called lokri or locreo. Avocado soup is a fruit soup prepared using avocados as a primary ingredient. Ingredients used in its preparation in addition to ripe avocados can include milk, cream, half-and-half or buttermilk, soup stock or broth, water, lime juice, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Additional ingredients used can include onions, shallots, garlic, hot sauce, cilantro, red pepper, cayenne pepper and cumin, and water can be used to thin the soup. It is enjoyed widely in areas of Mexico as a classic dish.

The avocados are typically puréed or mashed, and sliced, diced or cubed avocado can be used as a garnish. Additional garnishes can include sliced lime, sour cream, chives, crab meat, shrimp and salsa fresca. It can be prepared and served as a cold or hot soup.

Avocado soup's color can change as time passes because oxidation causes avocados to brown, but this does not affect the soup's flavor. It can be a relatively easy dish to prepare that does not require a great deal of time. Backhendl or Wiener Backhendl (English: Viennese fried chicken), has been a specialty of Viennese cuisine since the 18th century. It consists of prepared and spiced portions of chicken, which are breaded and crispy deep fried. Often served with a lemon wedge on the side.

Originally, the preparation of this dish had been a breaded and baked chicken, since only the Viennese upper class would had access to fried foods. Baked beans is a dish traditionally containing white common beans that are parboiled and then, in the US, baked in sauce at low temperature for a lengthy period. Canned baked beans are not baked, but are cooked through a steam process.

Baked beans occurred in Native American cuisine, and are made from beans indigenous to the Americas. It is thought that the dish was adopted and adapted by English colonists in New England in the 17th century and, through cookbooks published in the 19th century, spread to other regions of the United States and into Canada. However, the connection to Native American cuisine may be apocryphal, as legumes such as broad beans and lentils prepared in various sauces had been established in European cuisine long before the Middle Ages. Today, in the New England region of the United States, a variety of indigenous legumes are used in restaurants or in the home, such as Jacob's cattle, soldier beans, yellow-eyed beans, and navy beans (also known as native beans).

Originally, Native Americans sweetened baked beans with maple syrup, a tradition some recipes still follow, but some English colonists used brown sugar beginning in the 17th century. In the 18th century, the convention of using American-made molasses as a sweetening agent became increasingly popular to avoid British taxes on sugar. Boston baked beans use a sauce prepared with molasses and salt pork, a dish whose popularity has given Boston the nickname "Beantown".

Today, baked beans are served throughout the United States alongside barbecue foods and at picnics. Beans in a brown sugar, sugar, or corn syrup sauce (with or without tomatoes) are widely available throughout the United States. Bush Brothers are the largest producer. After the American Revolutionary War, Independence Day celebrations often included baked beans.

Canned baked beans are used as a convenience food; most are made from haricot beans in sauce. They may be eaten hot or cold, and straight from the can, as they are fully cooked. H. J. Heinz began producing canned baked beans in 1886. In the early 20th century, canned baked beans gained international popularity, particularly in the United Kingdom, where they have become a common part of an English full breakfast. Balut (/bəˈluːt/ bə-LOOT, /ˈbɑːluːt/ BAH-loot; also spelled as balot) is a fertilized developing egg embryo that is boiled or steamed and eaten from the shell. It is commonly sold as street food most notably in the Philippines, Cambodia (Khmer: ពងទាកូន, paung tea kaun) and Vietnam (Vietnamese: trứng vịt lộn, hột vịt lộn). The term comes from the Filipino language.

The length of incubation before the egg is cooked is a matter of local preference, but generally ranges between 14 and 21 days. Baumkuchen (German pronunciation: [ˈbaʊ̯mˌkuːxn̩]) is a kind of spit cake from German cuisine. It is also a popular dessert in Japan. The characteristic rings that appear in its slices resemble tree rings, and give the cake its German name, Baumkuchen, which literally translates to "tree cake" or "log cake". Bean salad is a common salad composed of various cooked beans—typically green, wax, kidney, and/or lima beans—tossed in a sweet-sour vinaigrette. Variant ingredients include fresh raw onions, bell pepper, and/or other cooked or raw vegetables, such as chickpeas.

Bean salad can also be prepared as a pickled dish, making it a popular choice for home canning. Salads prepared with this method should be used within a year for best quality.

Balela, a Mediterranean bean salad
Balela, a Middle Eastern bean salad
Cultures around the world have their own version of bean salad. Balela is a Middle Eastern salad that typically uses chickpeas and black beans with tomatoes, herbs, parsley, and lemon juice. South American bean salad features poroto beans with tomatoes, parsley, oil and vinegar, and is served with grilled steak.

The dish is commonly known in the United States as "three-bean salad". The generic term “bean salad” may also include a starch such as barley, pasta, rice, or quinoa. Beef Wellington is a steak dish of English origin, made out of fillet steak coated with pâté (often pâté de foie gras) and duxelles, wrapped in puff pastry, then baked. Some recipes include wrapping the coated meat in a crêpe or dry-cured ham to retain the moisture and prevent it from making the pastry soggy.

A whole tenderloin may be wrapped and baked, and then sliced for serving, or the tenderloin may be sliced into individual portions prior to wrapping and baking. A beefsteak, often called just steak, is a flat cut of beef with parallel faces, usually cut perpendicular to the muscle fibers. In common restaurant service a single serving has a raw mass ranging from 120 to 600 grams (4 to 21 oz). Beef steaks are usually grilled, pan-fried, or broiled. The more tender cuts from the loin and rib are cooked quickly, using dry heat, and served whole. Less tender cuts from the chuck or round are cooked with moist heat or are mechanically tenderized (cf. cube steak). Beijinho (Portuguese pronunciation: [bej'ʒĩɲu]; "little kiss" in Portuguese), also known as branquinho ("little white one"), is a typical Brazilian birthday party candy prepared with condensed milk, grated desiccated coconut, rolled over caster sugar or grated coconut and frequently topped with a clove.

Beijinho is the coconut version of the Brazilian brigadeiro. When rolled, it can be covered with granulated sugar or grated coconut. Traditionally a single clove is stuck in the top of the candy.

It is believed that Beijinho was originally called "Nun's kiss" and formerly made with almonds, water and sugar. The Berner Platte (English: Bernese plate) is a traditional meat dish of Bernese cuisine in Switzerland.It consists of various meat and sausage varieties such as smoked pork and beef, pork belly, sausage, bacon and pork ears or tails cooked with juniper-flavored sauerkraut, and other foods such as potatoes and green and/or dried beans, which are served on a large plate.

The Berner Platte is not a stew; rather, the different meat ingredients and side dishes are each separately prepared or cooked. Berner Platte dishes are sometimes served within the context of a buffet.