Älplermagronen (also spelled Älplermakkaronen, lit. "Alpine herdsman’s macaroni" in German) is a dish from the Alpine regions of Switzerland, consisting of pasta, potatoes, cream, cheese, and onions.
The name is made up of "Älpler" as a designation for the Alpine herder and "Magronen", which was taken as a loan word from the Italian word maccheroni.
Appam also known as aappam; (Malayalam: അപ്പം) or āppa (Sinhala: ආප්ප) is a type of thin pancake originating from South India and Sri Lanka.
It is made with fermented rice batter and coconut milk, traditionally cooked in an appachatti, a deep pan similar in shape to a wok.
It is part of Kerala and Tamil cuisine found in the Indian states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and in Sri Lanka.
Appam is most frequently served for breakfast or dinner, often with a topping such as an egg.
Apple cakes are cakes in which apples feature as a main flavour and ingredient.
Such cakes incorporate apples in a variety of forms, including diced, pureed, or stewed, and can include common additions like raisins, nuts, and 'sweet' spices such as cinnamon or nutmeg.
They are a common and popular dessert worldwide, thanks to millennia of apple cultivation in Asia and Europe, and their widespread introduction and propagation throughout the Americas during the Columbian Exchange and colonisation.
As a result, apple desserts, including cakes, have a huge number of variations.
Apples are also used in other cakes to add moisture and sweetness, often as a partial substitute for refined sugar.
Apple strudel (German: Apfelstrudel; Czech: štrúdl; Yiddish: שטרודל) is a traditional Viennese strudel, a popular pastry in Austria, Bavaria, the Czech Republic, Northern Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, and other countries in Europe that once belonged to the Austro-Hungarian Empire (1867–1918).
Arrosticini are a class of traditional dishes of skewered grilled meat characteristic of Molisana and Abruzzese cuisine (from the Italian regions of Abruzzo and Molise).
Arrosticini (rustelle or arrustelle in the local dialects; also known as spiedini or spiducci) are typically made from mutton or lamb cut in chunks and pierced by a skewer.
It is cooked on a brazier with a typically elongated shape, called furnacella, which resembles a gutter.
There are two main kinds of arrosticini: those made industrially, consisting of cubical chunks of meat with a side of 1 cm (0.4 inches) on skewers with a maximum length of 10 cm (4 inches); and those made by hand, for which the meat is cut with a knife in chunks of different sizes, alternated on the skewer with pieces of ovine fat.
Arrosticini originate from the food consumed by shepherds and other inhabitants of the mountainous areas in Abruzzo within the villages of Castilenti, Civitella Casanova, Carpineto and Villa Celiera who were accustomed to eating even less refined food than hard sheep meat.
Arrosticini are often accompanied by slices of bread soaked in extra-virgin olive oil (pane 'onde).
The traditional beverage accompaniment is Montepulciano d'Abruzzo wine.
Traditionally, arrosticini are eaten by pulling the meat off the skewer piece by piece using one's teeth.
Arroz con pollo (Spanish for rice with chicken) is a traditional dish of Latin America.
It typically consists of chicken cooked with rice, onions, saffron, and a potential plethora of other grains or vegetables.
In the Dominican Republic it is alternately called locrio de pollo, and in Saint Martin it is called lokri or locreo.
Avocado soup is a fruit soup prepared using avocados as a primary ingredient.
Ingredients used in its preparation in addition to ripe avocados can include milk, cream, half-and-half or buttermilk, soup stock or broth, water, lime juice, lemon juice, salt and pepper.
Additional ingredients used can include onions, shallots, garlic, hot sauce, cilantro, red pepper, cayenne pepper and cumin, and water can be used to thin the soup.
It is enjoyed widely in areas of Mexico as a classic dish.
The avocados are typically puréed or mashed, and sliced, diced or cubed avocado can be used as a garnish.
Additional garnishes can include sliced lime, sour cream, chives, crab meat, shrimp and salsa fresca.
It can be prepared and served as a cold or hot soup.
Avocado soup's color can change as time passes because oxidation causes avocados to brown, but this does not affect the soup's flavor.
It can be a relatively easy dish to prepare that does not require a great deal of time.
Backhendl or Wiener Backhendl (English: Viennese fried chicken), has been a specialty of Viennese cuisine since the 18th century.
It consists of prepared and spiced portions of chicken, which are breaded and crispy deep fried.
Often served with a lemon wedge on the side.
Originally, the preparation of this dish had been a breaded and baked chicken, since only the Viennese upper class would had access to fried foods.
Baked beans is a dish traditionally containing white common beans that are parboiled and then, in the US, baked in sauce at low temperature for a lengthy period.
Canned baked beans are not baked, but are cooked through a steam process.
Baked beans occurred in Native American cuisine, and are made from beans indigenous to the Americas.
It is thought that the dish was adopted and adapted by English colonists in New England in the 17th century and, through cookbooks published in the 19th century, spread to other regions of the United States and into Canada.
However, the connection to Native American cuisine may be apocryphal, as legumes such as broad beans and lentils prepared in various sauces had been established in European cuisine long before the Middle Ages.
Today, in the New England region of the United States, a variety of indigenous legumes are used in restaurants or in the home, such as Jacob's cattle, soldier beans, yellow-eyed beans, and navy beans (also known as native beans).
Originally, Native Americans sweetened baked beans with maple syrup, a tradition some recipes still follow, but some English colonists used brown sugar beginning in the 17th century.
In the 18th century, the convention of using American-made molasses as a sweetening agent became increasingly popular to avoid British taxes on sugar.
Boston baked beans use a sauce prepared with molasses and salt pork, a dish whose popularity has given Boston the nickname "Beantown".
Today, baked beans are served throughout the United States alongside barbecue foods and at picnics.
Beans in a brown sugar, sugar, or corn syrup sauce (with or without tomatoes) are widely available throughout the United States.
Bush Brothers are the largest producer.
After the American Revolutionary War, Independence Day celebrations often included baked beans.
Canned baked beans are used as a convenience food; most are made from haricot beans in sauce.
They may be eaten hot or cold, and straight from the can, as they are fully cooked.
H. J. Heinz began producing canned baked beans in 1886.
In the early 20th century, canned baked beans gained international popularity, particularly in the United Kingdom, where they have become a common part of an English full breakfast.
Balut (/bəˈluːt/ bə-LOOT, /ˈbɑːluːt/ BAH-loot; also spelled as balot) is a fertilized developing egg embryo that is boiled or steamed and eaten from the shell.
It is commonly sold as street food most notably in the Philippines, Cambodia (Khmer: ពងទាកូន, paung tea kaun) and Vietnam (Vietnamese: trứng vịt lộn, hột vịt lộn).
The term comes from the Filipino language.
The length of incubation before the egg is cooked is a matter of local preference, but generally ranges between 14 and 21 days.
Baumkuchen (German pronunciation: ) is a kind of spit cake from German cuisine.
It is also a popular dessert in Japan.
The characteristic rings that appear in its slices resemble tree rings, and give the cake its German name, Baumkuchen, which literally translates to "tree cake" or "log cake".
Bean salad is a common salad composed of various cooked beans—typically green, wax, kidney, and/or lima beans—tossed in a sweet-sour vinaigrette.
Variant ingredients include fresh raw onions, bell pepper, and/or other cooked or raw vegetables, such as chickpeas.
Bean salad can also be prepared as a pickled dish, making it a popular choice for home canning.
Salads prepared with this method should be used within a year for best quality.
Cultures around the world have their own version of bean salad.
Balela is a Middle Eastern salad that typically uses chickpeas and black beans with tomatoes, herbs, parsley, and lemon juice.
South American bean salad features poroto beans with tomatoes, parsley, oil and vinegar, and is served with grilled steak.
The dish is commonly known in the United States as "three-bean salad".
The generic term “bean salad” may also include a starch such as barley, pasta, rice, or quinoa.
Beef Wellington is a steak dish of English origin, made out of fillet steak coated with pâté (often pâté de foie gras) and duxelles, wrapped in puff pastry, then baked.
Some recipes include wrapping the coated meat in a crêpe or dry-cured ham to retain the moisture and prevent it from making the pastry soggy.
A whole tenderloin may be wrapped and baked, and then sliced for serving, or the tenderloin may be sliced into individual portions prior to wrapping and baking.
A beefsteak, often called just steak, is a flat cut of beef with parallel faces, usually cut perpendicular to the muscle fibers.
In common restaurant service a single serving has a raw mass ranging from 120 to 600 grams (4 to 21 oz).
Beef steaks are usually grilled, pan-fried, or broiled.
The more tender cuts from the loin and rib are cooked quickly, using dry heat, and served whole.
Less tender cuts from the chuck or round are cooked with moist heat or are mechanically tenderized (cf. cube steak).
Beijinho (Portuguese pronunciation: ; "little kiss" in Portuguese), also known as branquinho ("little white one"), is a typical Brazilian birthday party candy prepared with condensed milk, grated desiccated coconut, rolled over caster sugar or grated coconut and frequently topped with a clove.
Beijinho is the coconut version of the Brazilian brigadeiro.
When rolled, it can be covered with granulated sugar or grated coconut.
Traditionally a single clove is stuck in the top of the candy.
It is believed that Beijinho was originally called "Nun's kiss" and formerly made with almonds, water and sugar.
The Berner Platte (English: Bernese plate) is a traditional meat dish of Bernese cuisine in Switzerland.It consists of various meat and sausage varieties such as smoked pork and beef, pork belly, sausage, bacon and pork ears or tails cooked with juniper-flavored sauerkraut, and other foods such as potatoes and green and/or dried beans, which are served on a large plate.
The Berner Platte is not a stew; rather, the different meat ingredients and side dishes are each separately prepared or cooked.
Berner Platte dishes are sometimes served within the context of a buffet.
Appam also known as aappam; (Malayalam: അപ്പം) or āppa (Sinhala: ආප්ප) is a type of thin pancake originating from South India and Sri Lanka.
It is made with fermented rice batter and coconut milk, traditionally cooked in an appachatti, a deep pan similar in shape to a wok.
It is part of Kerala and Tamil cuisine found in the Indian states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and in Sri Lanka.
Appam is most frequently served for breakfast or dinner, often with a topping such as an egg.
Apple cakes are cakes in which apples feature as a main flavour and ingredient.
Such cakes incorporate apples in a variety of forms, including diced, pureed, or stewed, and can include common additions like raisins, nuts, and 'sweet' spices such as cinnamon or nutmeg.
They are a common and popular dessert worldwide, thanks to millennia of apple cultivation in Asia and Europe, and their widespread introduction and propagation throughout the Americas during the Columbian Exchange and colonisation.
As a result, apple desserts, including cakes, have a huge number of variations.
Apples are also used in other cakes to add moisture and sweetness, often as a partial substitute for refined sugar.
Apple strudel (German: Apfelstrudel; Czech: štrúdl; Yiddish: שטרודל) is a traditional Viennese strudel, a popular pastry in Austria, Bavaria, the Czech Republic, Northern Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, and other countries in Europe that once belonged to the Austro-Hungarian Empire (1867–1918).
Arrosticini are a class of traditional dishes of skewered grilled meat characteristic of Molisana and Abruzzese cuisine (from the Italian regions of Abruzzo and Molise).
Arrosticini (rustelle or arrustelle in the local dialects; also known as spiedini or spiducci) are typically made from mutton or lamb cut in chunks and pierced by a skewer.
It is cooked on a brazier with a typically elongated shape, called furnacella, which resembles a gutter.
There are two main kinds of arrosticini: those made industrially, consisting of cubical chunks of meat with a side of 1 cm (0.4 inches) on skewers with a maximum length of 10 cm (4 inches); and those made by hand, for which the meat is cut with a knife in chunks of different sizes, alternated on the skewer with pieces of ovine fat.
Arrosticini originate from the food consumed by shepherds and other inhabitants of the mountainous areas in Abruzzo within the villages of Castilenti, Civitella Casanova, Carpineto and Villa Celiera who were accustomed to eating even less refined food than hard sheep meat.
Arrosticini are often accompanied by slices of bread soaked in extra-virgin olive oil (pane 'onde).
The traditional beverage accompaniment is Montepulciano d'Abruzzo wine.
Traditionally, arrosticini are eaten by pulling the meat off the skewer piece by piece using one's teeth.
Arroz con pollo (Spanish for rice with chicken) is a traditional dish of Latin America.
It typically consists of chicken cooked with rice, onions, saffron, and a potential plethora of other grains or vegetables.
In the Dominican Republic it is alternately called locrio de pollo, and in Saint Martin it is called lokri or locreo.
Avocado soup is a fruit soup prepared using avocados as a primary ingredient.
Ingredients used in its preparation in addition to ripe avocados can include milk, cream, half-and-half or buttermilk, soup stock or broth, water, lime juice, lemon juice, salt and pepper.
Additional ingredients used can include onions, shallots, garlic, hot sauce, cilantro, red pepper, cayenne pepper and cumin, and water can be used to thin the soup.
It is enjoyed widely in areas of Mexico as a classic dish.
The avocados are typically puréed or mashed, and sliced, diced or cubed avocado can be used as a garnish.
Additional garnishes can include sliced lime, sour cream, chives, crab meat, shrimp and salsa fresca.
It can be prepared and served as a cold or hot soup.
Avocado soup's color can change as time passes because oxidation causes avocados to brown, but this does not affect the soup's flavor.
It can be a relatively easy dish to prepare that does not require a great deal of time.
Backhendl or Wiener Backhendl (English: Viennese fried chicken), has been a specialty of Viennese cuisine since the 18th century.
It consists of prepared and spiced portions of chicken, which are breaded and crispy deep fried.
Often served with a lemon wedge on the side.
Originally, the preparation of this dish had been a breaded and baked chicken, since only the Viennese upper class would had access to fried foods.
Baked beans is a dish traditionally containing white common beans that are parboiled and then, in the US, baked in sauce at low temperature for a lengthy period.
Canned baked beans are not baked, but are cooked through a steam process.
Baked beans occurred in Native American cuisine, and are made from beans indigenous to the Americas.
It is thought that the dish was adopted and adapted by English colonists in New England in the 17th century and, through cookbooks published in the 19th century, spread to other regions of the United States and into Canada.
However, the connection to Native American cuisine may be apocryphal, as legumes such as broad beans and lentils prepared in various sauces had been established in European cuisine long before the Middle Ages.
Today, in the New England region of the United States, a variety of indigenous legumes are used in restaurants or in the home, such as Jacob's cattle, soldier beans, yellow-eyed beans, and navy beans (also known as native beans).
Originally, Native Americans sweetened baked beans with maple syrup, a tradition some recipes still follow, but some English colonists used brown sugar beginning in the 17th century.
In the 18th century, the convention of using American-made molasses as a sweetening agent became increasingly popular to avoid British taxes on sugar.
Boston baked beans use a sauce prepared with molasses and salt pork, a dish whose popularity has given Boston the nickname "Beantown".
Today, baked beans are served throughout the United States alongside barbecue foods and at picnics.
Beans in a brown sugar, sugar, or corn syrup sauce (with or without tomatoes) are widely available throughout the United States.
Bush Brothers are the largest producer.
After the American Revolutionary War, Independence Day celebrations often included baked beans.
Canned baked beans are used as a convenience food; most are made from haricot beans in sauce.
They may be eaten hot or cold, and straight from the can, as they are fully cooked.
H. J. Heinz began producing canned baked beans in 1886.
In the early 20th century, canned baked beans gained international popularity, particularly in the United Kingdom, where they have become a common part of an English full breakfast.
Balut (/bəˈluːt/ bə-LOOT, /ˈbɑːluːt/ BAH-loot; also spelled as balot) is a fertilized developing egg embryo that is boiled or steamed and eaten from the shell.
It is commonly sold as street food most notably in the Philippines, Cambodia (Khmer: ពងទាកូន, paung tea kaun) and Vietnam (Vietnamese: trứng vịt lộn, hột vịt lộn).
The term comes from the Filipino language.
The length of incubation before the egg is cooked is a matter of local preference, but generally ranges between 14 and 21 days.
Baumkuchen (German pronunciation: ) is a kind of spit cake from German cuisine.
It is also a popular dessert in Japan.
The characteristic rings that appear in its slices resemble tree rings, and give the cake its German name, Baumkuchen, which literally translates to "tree cake" or "log cake".
Bean salad is a common salad composed of various cooked beans—typically green, wax, kidney, and/or lima beans—tossed in a sweet-sour vinaigrette.
Variant ingredients include fresh raw onions, bell pepper, and/or other cooked or raw vegetables, such as chickpeas.
Bean salad can also be prepared as a pickled dish, making it a popular choice for home canning.
Salads prepared with this method should be used within a year for best quality.
Cultures around the world have their own version of bean salad.
Balela is a Middle Eastern salad that typically uses chickpeas and black beans with tomatoes, herbs, parsley, and lemon juice.
South American bean salad features poroto beans with tomatoes, parsley, oil and vinegar, and is served with grilled steak.
The dish is commonly known in the United States as "three-bean salad".
The generic term “bean salad” may also include a starch such as barley, pasta, rice, or quinoa.
Beef Wellington is a steak dish of English origin, made out of fillet steak coated with pâté (often pâté de foie gras) and duxelles, wrapped in puff pastry, then baked.
Some recipes include wrapping the coated meat in a crêpe or dry-cured ham to retain the moisture and prevent it from making the pastry soggy.
A whole tenderloin may be wrapped and baked, and then sliced for serving, or the tenderloin may be sliced into individual portions prior to wrapping and baking.
A beefsteak, often called just steak, is a flat cut of beef with parallel faces, usually cut perpendicular to the muscle fibers.
In common restaurant service a single serving has a raw mass ranging from 120 to 600 grams (4 to 21 oz).
Beef steaks are usually grilled, pan-fried, or broiled.
The more tender cuts from the loin and rib are cooked quickly, using dry heat, and served whole.
Less tender cuts from the chuck or round are cooked with moist heat or are mechanically tenderized (cf. cube steak).
Beijinho (Portuguese pronunciation: ; "little kiss" in Portuguese), also known as branquinho ("little white one"), is a typical Brazilian birthday party candy prepared with condensed milk, grated desiccated coconut, rolled over caster sugar or grated coconut and frequently topped with a clove.
Beijinho is the coconut version of the Brazilian brigadeiro.
When rolled, it can be covered with granulated sugar or grated coconut.
Traditionally a single clove is stuck in the top of the candy.
It is believed that Beijinho was originally called "Nun's kiss" and formerly made with almonds, water and sugar.
The Berner Platte (English: Bernese plate) is a traditional meat dish of Bernese cuisine in Switzerland.It consists of various meat and sausage varieties such as smoked pork and beef, pork belly, sausage, bacon and pork ears or tails cooked with juniper-flavored sauerkraut, and other foods such as potatoes and green and/or dried beans, which are served on a large plate.
The Berner Platte is not a stew; rather, the different meat ingredients and side dishes are each separately prepared or cooked.
Berner Platte dishes are sometimes served within the context of a buffet.
A biscuit, in most English speaking countries, is a flour-based baked and shaped food product.
Biscuits are typically hard, flat, and unleavened.
They are usually sweet and may be made with sugar, chocolate, icing, jam, ginger, or cinnamon.
They can also be savoury, similar to crackers.
Types of biscuit include sandwich biscuits, digestive biscuits, ginger biscuits, shortbread biscuits, chocolate chip cookies, chocolate-coated marshmallow treats, Anzac biscuits, biscotti, and speculaas.
In most of North America, nearly all hard sweet biscuits are called "cookies", while the term "biscuit" is used for a soft, leavened quick bread similar to a less sweet version of a scone.
Black pudding is a distinct regional type of blood sausage originating in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
It is made from pork or occasionally beef blood, with pork fat or beef suet, and a cereal, usually oatmeal, oat groats, or barley groats.
The high proportion of cereal, along with the use of certain herbs such as pennyroyal, serves to distinguish black pudding from blood sausages eaten in other parts of the world.
A blini (plural blinis or blini, rarely bliny; Russian: блины pl.
), traditionally also called a blin is a Russian and more broadly Eastern European pancake made from various kinds of flour or buckwheat, wheat, etc.
They may be served with smetana, tvorog, caviar and other garnishes, or simply smeared with butter.
Blini are among the most popular and most-eaten dishes in Russia.
In the West, blini traditionally refers to small savory pancakes made with leavened batter.
In modern Russian, the term most often refers to pan-sized leavened thin pancakes, although smaller leavened pancakes are also called blini and were much more common historically.
Some English dictionaries record usage of the forms blin as singular and blini or bliny as plural, which corresponds to the original Russian forms, but other dictionaries consider this usage so rare in English that they do not mention blin at all and only record the widespread modern regular usage of blini for the singular and blinis for the plural.
Some cookbooks and restaurants use blin and blintchick as in Russian to refer to crêpes.
Blintzes, called blinchiki (little blinis) in Russian are an offshoot of blini.
They are thin pancakes usually made of wheat flour, folded to form a casing for various kinds of filing, typically cheese, fruit, or (in Russian cuisine) pre-fried minced meat, and then sautéed or baked.
A blood sausage is a sausage filled with blood that is cooked or dried and mixed with a filler until it is thick enough to solidify when cooled.
Most commonly, the blood of pigs, sheep, lamb, cow, chicken, or goose is used.
In Europe and the Americas, typical fillers include meat, fat, suet, bread, cornmeal, onion, chestnuts, barley, oatmeal and buckwheat.
On the Iberian Peninsula and in Latin America and Asia, fillers are often made with rice.
Sweet variants with sugar, honey, orange peel and spices are also regional specialties.
In many languages, there is a general term such as blood sausage (American English) that is used for all sausages that are made from blood, whether or not they include non-animal material such as bread, cereal, and nuts.
Sausages that include such material are often referred to with more specific terms, such as black pudding in English.
Other varieties of blood sausage include boudin rouge (Creole and Cajun), rellena or moronga (Mexico) and sanganel (Friuli).
Boiled eggs are eggs, typically from a chicken, cooked with their shells unbroken, usually by immersion in boiling water.
Hard-boiled eggs are cooked so that the egg white and egg yolk both solidify, while soft-boiled eggs may leave the yolk, and sometimes the white, at least partially liquid and raw.
Boiled eggs are a popular breakfast food around the world.
Besides a boiling water immersion, there are a few different methods to make boiled eggs.
Eggs can also be cooked below the boiling temperature, i.e.
coddling, or they can be steamed.
The egg timer was named for commonly being used to time the boiling of eggs.
Boodog is a Mongolian cuisine dish of barbecued goat or Tarbagan marmot cooked with heated stones inserted into the carcass.
It is prepared on special occasions.
The meat, often accompanied by vegetables, is cooked with heated stones in a sealed milk can (khorkhog) or the de-boned body of the animals.
Marmot hunting usually takes place in the fall when the animals are larger and have been preparing for hibernation.
Borscht (English: /ˈbɔːrʃ, ˈbɔːrʃt/) is a sour soup, made with meat stock, vegetables and seasonings, common in Eastern Europe and Northern Asia.
In English, the word "borscht" is most often associated with the soup's variant of Ukrainian origin, made with red beetroots as one of the main ingredients, which give the dish its distinctive red color.
The same name, however, is also used for a wide selection of sour-tasting soups without beetroots, such as sorrel-based green borscht, rye-based white borscht, and cabbage borscht.
Borscht derives from an ancient soup originally cooked from pickled stems, leaves and umbels of common hogweed (Heracleum sphondylium), an herbaceous plant growing in damp meadows, which lent the dish its Slavic name.
With time, it evolved into a diverse array of tart soups, among which the Ukrainian beet-based red borscht has become the most popular.
It is typically made by combining meat or bone stock with sautéed vegetables, which – as well as beetroots – usually include cabbage, carrots, onions, potatoes, and tomatoes.
Depending on the recipe, borscht may include meat or fish, or be purely vegetarian; it may be served either hot or cold, and it may range from a hearty one-pot meal to a clear broth or a smooth drink.
It is often served with smetana or sour cream, hard-boiled eggs or potatoes, but there exists an ample choice of more involved garnishes and side dishes, such as uszka or pampushky, that can be served with the soup.
Its popularity has spread throughout Eastern Europe and – by way of migration away from the Russian Empire – to other continents.
In North America, borscht is often linked with either Jews or Mennonites, the groups who first brought it there from Europe.
Several ethnic groups claim borscht, in its various local implementations, as their own national dish consumed as part of ritual meals within Eastern Orthodox, Greek Catholic, Roman Catholic, and Jewish religious traditions.
A Boston cream pie is a cake with a cream filling.
The dessert acquired its name when cakes and pies were cooked in the same pans, and the words were used interchangeably.
In the late 19th century, this type of cake was variously called a "cream pie", a "chocolate cream pie", or a "custard cake".
A bouillon cube /ˈbuːjɒn/ (Canada and US), stock cube (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa and UK), or broth cube (Asia) is dehydrated broth or stock formed into a small cube or other cuboid shape.
The most common format is a cube about 13 mm (1⁄2 in) wide.
It is typically made from dehydrated vegetables or meat stock, a small portion of fat, MSG, salt, and seasonings, shaped into a small cube.
Vegetarian and vegan types are also made.
Bouillon is also available in granular, powdered, liquid, and paste forms.
Bratwurst (German: ) is a type of German sausage made from pork or, less commonly, beef or veal.
The name is derived from the Old High German Brätwurst, from brät-, finely chopped meat, and Wurst, sausage, although in modern German it is often associated with the verb braten, to pan fry or roast.
Beef and veal are usually incorporated amongst a blend often including pork.
Bread soup is a simple soup that mainly consists of stale bread.
Variations exist in many countries, and it is often eaten during Lent.
Both brown and white bread may be used.
The basis for bread soup is traditionally either meat soup or vegetable broth.
Less often it is made with fish broth.
To prepare the dish, the bread is either cut into pieces and put directly into the broth, or it is cooked with onions and spices in a broth and then pureed.
Some versions add bacon, egg and cream, others liver sausage or blood sausage.
A common version of the dish is prepared from the broth remaining from the steeping of sausage during home butchering of pigs.
The soup is then traditionally seasoned with marjoram.
An Italian variation, millefanti, also uses egg and Parmesan cheese.
Some fine variations contain wine.
Other more rustic versions contain malt or beer.
Brisket is a cut of meat from the breast or lower chest of beef or veal.
The beef brisket is one of the nine beef primal cuts, though the definition of the cut differs internationally.
The brisket muscles include the superficial and deep pectorals.
As cattle do not have collar bones, these muscles support about 60% of the body weight of standing or moving cattle.
This requires a significant amount of connective tissue, so the resulting meat must be cooked correctly to tenderise it.
According to the Random House Dictionary of the English Language, Second Edition, the term derives from the Middle English brusket which comes from the earlier Old Norse brjósk, meaning cartilage.
The cut overlies the sternum, ribs, and connecting costal cartilages.
Bubble and squeak is a British dish made from cooked potatoes and cabbage, mixed together and fried.
The food writer Howard Hillman classes it as one of the "great peasant dishes of the world".
The dish has been known since at least the 18th century, and in its early versions it contained cooked beef; by the mid-20th century the two vegetables had become the principal ingredients.
A Buccellato  is a Sicilian circular cake made from pastry dough filled with figs and nuts.
It is traditionally associated with Christmas in Sicily.
It is not to be confused with the distinct, but similar traditional Lucchese cake of the same name, the buccellato (di Lucca), although both are ring-shaped sweet breads that contain candied fruit peels.
A Buffalo wing in American cuisine is an unbreaded chicken wing section (flat or drumette) that is generally deep-fried, then coated or dipped in a sauce consisting of a vinegar-based cayenne pepper hot sauce and melted butter prior to serving.
They are traditionally served hot, along with celery sticks and carrot sticks, and a dip of blue cheese dressing or, primarily outside of New York, ranch dressing.
Buffalo wings are named for Buffalo, New York, where they were invented, and have no relation to the animal.
They are often called simply chicken wings, hot wings, or just wings.
Buffalo wings have gained in popularity in the United States and abroad, with some North American restaurant chains featuring them as a main menu item.
The name "Buffalo" is now also applied to other spiced fried foods served with dipping sauces, including boneless chicken wings (made from chicken breast meat rather than a chicken wing), chicken fries, chicken nuggets, popcorn chicken, shrimp, and cauliflower.
It is also used for other dishes, such as pizza, that are seasoned with the Buffalo-style sauce or a Buffalo flavor seasoning.
Buldak (불닭) or fire chicken is a heavily spiced, barbecued chicken dish.
The literal meaning of the name is "fire chicken", where bul means "fire" and dak translates to "chicken."
Bulgogi (Korean: 불고기; American English /bʊlˈɡoʊɡiː/ buul-GOH-ghee; from Korean bul-gogi ), literally "fire meat") is a gui (Korean-style grilled or roasted dish) made of thin, marinated slices of meat, most commonly beef, grilled on a barbecue or on a stove-top griddle.
It is also often stir-fried in a pan in home cooking.
Sirloin, rib eye are frequently used cuts of beef for the dish.
The dish originated from northern areas of the Korean Peninsula, but is a very popular dish in South Korea, where it can be found anywhere from upscale restaurants to local supermarkets as pan-ready kits.
Buljol is a salad dish of the cuisine of Trinidad and Tobago.
It consists of chopped salted cod, tomatoes and chilies.
The name is of French origin.
18th-century colonial power Spain launched the cédula de población in 1783, an edict that successfully promoted the settling of French (i.e.
likewise Catholic) planters in Trinidad who quickly set the population majority.
The name is a combination of the French words brulé ('burnt') and gueule ('muzzle'), which was changed into bu'n jaw in Trinidad's 19th century patois and finally morphed into buljol.
The name does not relate to the temperature of the dish (it is served cold) but to its spiciness, caused by the added hot pepper.
In colonial times buljol was considered a poor man's food, but nowadays it is used as a breakfast ingredient, being eaten with toast or fried bake.
From Trinidad the use of buljol has spread to other Caribbean islands (especially Barbados) and Trinidadian communities in English-speaking countries such as Canada, Great Britain and the United States.
The skin and bones of the salted cod are removed, then it is cooked or repeatedly soused with cooking water to remove as much of the salt as possible.
The fish is then shredded and mixed with chopped tomatoes and chilies.
Additional ingredients are added to taste with onions, bell peppers and olive oil being prevalent, but also garlic, hard-boiled eggs, lemon juice, lettuce, white wine and various herbs are used.
Instead of codfish sometimes pollock or hake are used.
A Bundt cake (/bʌnt/) is a cake that is baked in a Bundt pan, shaping it into a distinctive donut shape.
The shape is inspired by a traditional European cake known as Gugelhupf, but Bundt cakes are not generally associated with any single recipe.
The style of mold in North America was popularized in the 1950s and 1960s, after cookware manufacturer Nordic Ware trademarked the name "Bundt" and began producing Bundt pans from cast aluminum.
Publicity from Pillsbury saw the cakes gain widespread popularity.
Buridda is an Italian seafood soup or stew originally from Liguria.
Some preparations may be slow-cooked, while others are cooked in a relatively short amount of time (9–10 minutes).
It has also been described as a stew, or as similar in texture to a stew.
Butajiru or tonjiru (豚汁, "pork soup")  is a Japanese soup made with pork and vegetables, flavoured with miso.
It is a more substantial version of miso soup, with a larger quantity and variety of ingredients.
Butter chicken, traditionally known as murgh makhani (pronounced ), is an Indian dish originating in Delhi.
It is a type of curry made from chicken with a spiced tomato and butter (makhan) sauce.
Its sauce is known for its rich texture.
It is similar to chicken tikka masala, which uses a tomato paste.
Bún bò Huế (pronounced ) or bún bò (English: /buːn bɔː/) is a Vietnamese rice noodle (bún) dish with sliced beef (bò), chả lụa, and sometimes pork knuckles.
The dish originates from Huế, a city in central Vietnam associated with the cooking style of the former royal court.
The dish has a mix of spicy, salty, and savory flavors.
The predominant flavor is that of lemongrass.
Compared to phở or bún riêu, the noodles are thicker and cylindrical.
Cake is a flour confection made from flour, sugar, and other ingredients and is usually baked.
In their oldest forms, cakes were modifications of bread, but cakes now cover a wide range of preparations that can be simple or elaborate and which share features with desserts such as pastries, meringues, custards, and pies.
The most common ingredients include flour, sugar, eggs, fat (such as butter, oil, or margarine), a liquid, and a leavening agent, such as baking soda or baking powder.
Common additional ingredients include dried, candied, or fresh fruit, nuts, cocoa, and extracts such as vanilla, with numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients.
Cakes can also be filled with fruit preserves, nuts, or dessert sauces (like custard, jelly, cooked fruit, whipped cream, or syrups), iced with buttercream or other icings, and decorated with marzipan, piped borders, or candied fruit.
Cake is often served as a celebratory dish on ceremonial occasions, such as weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays.
There are countless cake recipes; some are bread-like, some are rich and elaborate, and many are centuries old.
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making (particularly the whisking of egg foams), baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur of cooks may bake a cake.
Caldo galego or simply caldo (in Galician), also known as caldo gallego (in Spanish), meaning literally "Galician broth", is a traditional soup dish from Galicia.
It is essentially a regional derivative (with added beans and turnip greens) of the very similar caldo verde, the traditional soup dish of neighbouring Portugal.
Ingredients include repolo (cabbage), verzas (collard greens), grelos (rapini), or navizas (sweet turnip greens); potatoes; white beans; and unto (lard).
Additionally it can contain fatty pork, chorizo, ham, or bacon (compango).
It is served hot as a starter, often as part of xantar (lunch), and sometimes dinner.
Traditionally it was usually served in cuncas (earthen bowls).
Caldo tlalpeño is a chicken and vegetable soup in Mexican cuisine which contains chicken meat, and chickpeas, carrots, and green beans, submerged in a chicken broth with garlic and onion, seasoned with epazote, cumin and chipotle chili.
It is served with avocado slices and diced cheese, and accompanied with lime.
Century eggs (Chinese: 皮蛋; pinyin: pídàn; Jyutping: pei4 daan2), also known as Alkalized or Preserved Egg, are a Chinese egg-based culinary dish made by preserving duck, chicken, or quail eggs in a mixture of clay, ash, salt, quicklime, and rice hulls for several weeks to several months, depending on the processing method.
Through the process, the yolk becomes a dark green to grey color, with a creamy consistency and strong flavor due to the hydrogen sulfide and ammonia present, while the white becomes a dark brown, translucent jelly with a salty flavor.
The transforming agent in the century egg is an alkaline salt, which gradually raises the pH of the egg to around 9–12, during the curing process.
This chemical process breaks down some of the complex, flavorless proteins and fats, which produces a variety of smaller flavorsome compounds.
Some eggs have patterns near the surface of the egg white which are likened to pine branches.
These patterned eggs are regarded as having better quality than the normal century eggs and are called Songhua eggs (Chinese: 松花蛋), variously translated as pine flower eggs or pine-patterned eggs.
Chawanmushi (茶碗蒸し, chawanmushi, literally "tea cup steam" or "steamed in a tea bowl") is an egg custard dish in Japanese cuisine.
Unlike many other custards, it is usually eaten as a dish in a meal, as chawanmushi contains savory rather than sweet ingredients.
The custard consists of an egg mixture flavored with soy sauce, dashi, and mirin, with numerous ingredients such as shiitake mushrooms, kamaboko, yuri-ne (lily root), ginkgo and boiled shrimp placed into a tea-cup-like container.
The recipe for the dish is similar to that of Chinese steamed eggs, but the toppings often differ.
Since egg custards cannot be picked up by chopsticks, it is one of the few Japanese dishes that are eaten with a spoon.
Chawanmushi can be eaten either hot or cool.
When udon is added as an ingredient, it is called odamaki mushi or odamaki udon.
Cheese curds are moist pieces of curdled milk, eaten either alone as a snack, or used in prepared dishes.
They are most often consumed throughout the northern United States and Canada.
Notably, cheese curds are popular in Quebec, as part of the dish poutine (made of French fries topped with cheese curds and gravy), and in Wisconsin and Minnesota where they can be served breaded and deep fried.
Curds are sometimes referred to as "squeaky cheese" or fromage en crottes (literally: "droppings of cheese").
Cheese soup is a type of soup prepared using cheese as a primary ingredient, along with milk, broth and/or stock to form its basis.
Various additional ingredients are used in its preparation, and various types and styles of cheese soup exist.
It is a part of some cuisines in the world, such as American, Colombian, Mexican, Swiss, French, and Tibetan cuisines.
Mass-produced cheese soups may be prepared with the addition of food additives to preserve them and enhance flavor.
A list of cheese soups is included in this article.
A cheesesteak (also known as a Philadelphia cheesesteak, Philly cheesesteak, cheesesteak sandwich, cheese steak, or steak and cheese) is a sandwich made from thinly sliced pieces of beefsteak and melted cheese in a long hoagie roll.
A popular regional fast food, it has its roots in the U.S. city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Chelow kabab (Persian: چلوکباب čelow-kabāb ) is an Iranian dish consisting of steamed rice (čelow) and one of the many varieties of Iranian kebab.
It is considered the national dish of Iran, and was probably created by the time of the Qajar dynasty.
Chelow kebab is served with accompaniments such as butter, sumac powder, basil, onions, and grilled tomatoes.
The traditional beverage accompanied with chelow kebab is doogh, an Iranian yogurt-based drink, sometimes made of carbonated water.
Persian kebab barbequed in Iran
In the old bazaar tradition, the rice and accompaniments are served first, immediately followed by the kababs, which are threaded on skewers, as well as a piece of flat bread (typically lavash).
A skewer is placed directly on the rice and while holding the kabab down on the rice with the bread, the skewer is quickly pulled out.
Chicken Kiev, also known as chicken Kyiv, is a dish made of chicken fillet pounded and rolled around cold butter, then coated with egg and bread crumbs, and either fried or baked.
Since fillets are often referred to as suprêmes in professional cookery, the dish is also called "suprême de volaille à la Kiev".
Stuffed chicken breast is generally known in Russian and Ukrainian cuisines as côtelette de volaille.
Though it has disputed origins, the dish is particularly popular in the post-Soviet states, as well as in several other countries of the former Eastern Bloc, and in the English-speaking world.
Chicken Marengo is an Italian and French dish consisting of a chicken sautéed in oil with garlic and tomato, garnished with fried eggs and crayfish.
The dish is similar to chicken à la Provençale, but with the addition of egg and crayfish, which are traditional to chicken Marengo but are now often omitted.
The original dish was named to celebrate the Battle of Marengo, a Napoleonic victory of June 1800.
A chicken nugget is a food product consisting of a small piece of deboned chicken meat that is breaded or battered, then deep-fried or baked.
Developed in the 1950s by finding a way to make a coating adhere, chicken nuggets have become a very popular fast food restaurant item, and are widely sold frozen for home use.
Chicken tikka masala is a dish consisting of roasted marinated chicken chunks (chicken tikka) in a spiced sauce.
The sauce is usually creamy and orange-coloured.
The dish was popularised by cooks from India living in Great Britain and is offered at restaurants around the world.
Chitterlings (/ˈtʃɪt(ə)lɪŋz/), sometimes spelled chitlins or chittlins, are the small intestines of domestic animals.
They are usually made from pigs' intestines.
They may also be filled with a forcemeat to make sausage.
Intestine from other animals, such as beef, lamb, goose, and goat is also used for making chitterling.
A choco pie is a snack cake consisting of two small round layers of cake with marshmallow filling and a chocolate covering.
The term originated in America but is now also used widely in South Korea, Japan, and its exports, and many other countries as either a brand name or a generic term.
Names for similar confections in other places include chocolate marshmallow pie, Wagon Wheels, the Japanese angel pie, and moon pie.
Cock-a-leekie soup is a Scottish soup dish consisting of leeks and peppered chicken stock, often thickened with rice, or sometimes barley.
The original recipe added prunes during cooking, and traditionalists still garnish with a julienne of prunes.
While it is called "Scotland's National Soup", it probably originated as a chicken and onion soup in France.
By the late 16th century, it had made its way to Scotland, where the onions were replaced with leeks.
The first recipe was printed in 1598, though the name "cock-a-leekie" did not come into use until the 18th century.
Traditionally, it is made with broiler fowl.
These have very little flesh.
Traditionally, the soup will not be loaded with vegetables nor thickeners.
It would range from a clear stock to a green leek stock, with little flesh.
The rich, chicken, vegetable and thickener versions seen today are produced largely because original cock a leekie is delicate, refreshing and difficult to make delicious.
It is not the appetizing meal suggested by the modern version which is closer to chicken soup or stew.
Cock a leekie soup, like a chicken and leek consommé with a little flesh, and pieces of leek, is a traditional soup course at Burns’ Suppers.
There are vegetarian versions of this soup.
The vegetarian version has leeks and may include mixed vegetables, chicken flavoured meat substitute and/or prunes.
Colcannon (Irish: cál ceannann, meaning 'white-headed cabbage') is a traditional Irish dish of mashed potatoes with cabbage.
Coleslaw (from the Dutch term koolsla meaning 'cabbage salad'), also known as cole slaw, or simply as slaw, is a side dish consisting primarily of finely shredded raw cabbage with a salad dressing or condiment, commonly either vinaigrette or mayonnaise.
This dish originated in the Netherlands in the 18th century.
Coleslaw prepared with vinaigrette may benefit from the long lifespan granted by pickling.
Coleslaw originated from the Dutch term "koolsla", meaning "cabbage salad", and has evolved into various forms globally.
The only consistent ingredient in coleslaw is raw cabbage, while other ingredients and dressings vary widely.
Some popular variations include adding red cabbage, pepper, shredded carrots, onion, grated cheese, pineapple, pears or apple, and using salad dressings like mayonnaise or cream.
In cooking, a consommé is a type of clear soup made from richly flavoured stock or broth that has been clarified, a process that uses egg whites to remove fat and sediment.
Consommé has three English pronunciations: traditionally in the UK, the stress is on the middle syllable; in modern UK English, the stress is on the first; and in the US the stress is on the last.
Coq au vin (/ˌkɒk oʊ ˈvæ̃/; French: , "rooster/cock with wine") is a French dish of chicken braised with wine, lardons, mushrooms, and optionally garlic.
A red Burgundy wine is typically used, though many regions of France make variants using local wines, such as coq au vin jaune (Jura), coq au riesling (Alsace), coq au pourpre or coq au violet (Beaujolais nouveau), and coq au Champagne.
A cordon bleu or schnitzel cordon bleu is a dish of meat wrapped around cheese (or with cheese filling), then breaded and pan-fried or deep-fried.
Veal or pork cordon bleu is made of veal or pork pounded thin and wrapped around a slice of ham and a slice of cheese, breaded, and then pan-fried or baked.
For chicken cordon bleu, chicken breast is used instead of veal.
Ham cordon bleu is ham stuffed with mushrooms and cheese.
A corn dog (also spelled corndog and also known by several other names) is a sausage (usually a wiener) on a stick that has been coated in a thick layer of cornmeal batter and deep fried.
It originated in the United States and is commonly found in American cuisine.
Coronation chicken or Poulet Reine Elizabeth is an English dish of boneless chicken traditionally seasoned with parsley, thyme, bay leaf, cumin, turmeric, ginger and peppercorns, mixed with cream or mayonnaise, and dried apricots (or sultanas).
Some modern variations also incorporate cinnamon.
It is served cold and eaten as a salad with rice, peas and pimentos, or used as a filling for sandwiches.
It was created by Constance Spry, an English food writer and flower arranger, and Rosemary Hume, a chef, for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953.
Country captain is a curried chicken and rice dish, which is popular in the Southern United States.
It was introduced to the United States through Charleston, Savannah, New York City, and Philadelphia, but has origins in the Indian subcontinent.
The dish was also included in the U.S. military's Meal, Ready-to-Eat packs from 2000 to 2004, in honor of it being a favorite dish of George S. Patton.
It has also appeared on television shows in both the United States and in the United Kingdom, with chefs Bobby Flay, Atul Kochhar and Cyrus Todiwala all cooking the dish.
Todiwala served his version to Queen Elizabeth II as part of her Diamond Jubilee celebrations.
Court-bouillon or court bouillon (in Louisiana, pronounced coo-bee-yon) is a quickly-cooked broth used for poaching other foods, most commonly fish or seafood.
It is also sometimes used for poaching vegetables, eggs, sweetbreads, cockscombs, and delicate meats.
It includes seasonings and salt but lacks animal gelatin.
A crab cake is a variety of fishcake popular in the United States.
It is composed of crab meat and various other ingredients, such as bread crumbs, mayonnaise, mustard (typically prepared mustard, but sometimes mustard powder), eggs, and seasonings.
It is then sautéed, baked, grilled, deep fried, or broiled.
Crab cakes are traditionally associated with the Chesapeake Bay, in the state of Maryland.
Although the earliest use of the term "crab cake" is commonly believed to date to Crosby Gaige's 1939 publication New York World's Fair Cook Book in which they are described as "Baltimore crab cakes," earlier usages can be found such as in Thomas J. Murrey's book Cookery with a Chafing Dish published in 1891.
Crab cakes are particularly popular along the coast of the Mid-Atlantic where the crabbing industry thrives.
They can also be commonly found in New England, the South Atlantic states, the Gulf Coast, the Pacific Northwest, and the Northern California coast.
While meat from any species of crab may be used, the blue crab, whose native habitat includes the Chesapeake Bay, is the traditional choice and generally considered to be the best tasting.
In the Pacific Northwest and northern California, the Dungeness crab is a popular ingredient for crab cakes, and the cakes are prepared at many restaurants throughout the region.
A crêpe or crepe (/kreɪp/ or /krɛp/, French: , Quebec French: ) is a very thin type of pancake.
Crêpes are usually one of two varieties: sweet crêpes (crêpes sucrées) or savoury galettes (crêpes salées).
They are often served with a wide variety of fillings such as cheese, fruit, vegetables, meats, and a variety of spreads.
Crêpes can also be flambéed, such as in crêpes Suzette.
A cupcake (AmE), fairy cake (BrE), or bun (IrE) is a small cake designed to serve one person, which may be baked in a small thin paper or aluminum cup.
As with larger cakes, frosting and other cake decorations such as fruit and candy may be applied.
Currywurst (German: ) is a fast food dish of German origin consisting of steamed, fried sausage, usually pork (German: Bratwurst), typically cut into bite-sized chunks and seasoned with curry ketchup, a sauce based on spiced ketchup or tomato paste topped with curry powder, or a ready-made ketchup seasoned with curry and other spices.
The dish is often served with french fries.
Custard is a variety of culinary preparations based on sweetened milk, cheese, or cream cooked with egg or egg yolk to thicken it, and sometimes also flour, corn starch, or gelatin.
Depending on the recipe, custard may vary in consistency from a thin pouring sauce (crème anglaise) to the thick pastry cream (crème pâtissière) used to fill éclairs.
The most common custards are used in custard desserts or dessert sauces and typically include sugar and vanilla; however, savory custards are also found, e.g., in quiche.
Czernina (Polish pronunciation: , from czarny – "black"; also spelled czarnina or czarna polewka – "black soup") is a Polish soup traditionally made of duck blood and clear poultry broth.
Rabbit or pig blood can also be used as alternatives.
In English it can be called "duck blood soup".
Dashi (出汁, だし) is a family of stocks used in Japanese cuisine.
Dashi forms the base for miso soup, clear broth soup, noodle broth soup, and many simmering liquids to accentuate the savory flavor known as umami.
Dashi is also mixed into the flour base of some grilled foods like okonomiyaki and takoyaki.
Daube is a French slow-cooked stew, usually of beef, but other meat is sometimes used.
The best-known is the bœuf en daube à la provençale, a provençal stew made with cheaper cuts of beef braised in wine, with vegetables, garlic and herbs, and traditionally cooked in a daubière – a braising pot.
A deep-fried Mars bar (also known as a battered Mars bar) is a Mars-brand chocolate bar covered in batter then deep fried in oil.
The dish originated at a chip shop in Scotland as a novelty item.
Since various mass media began reporting on the practice in the mid-1990s – often as a critical commentary on how unhealthy the Scottish diet was – the popularity of the dish has spread.
Deviled eggs, also known as stuffed eggs, Russian eggs, curried eggs or dressed eggs, are hard-boiled eggs that have been peeled, cut in half, and filled with the yolk, mixed with other ingredients such as mayonnaise and mustard.
They are generally served cold as a side dish, appetizer or a main course during gatherings or parties.
The dish's origin can be seen in recipes for boiled, seasoned eggs as far back as ancient Rome, where they were traditionally served as a first course.
The dish is popular in Europe, North America and Australia.
Doner kebab (UK: /ˈdɒnər kɪˈbæb/, US: /ˈdoʊnər kɪˈbɑːb/; Turkish: döner or döner kebap, pronounced ), also spelled as döner kebab, is a dish of Turkish origin made of meat cooked on a vertical rotisserie.
Seasoned meat stacked in the shape of an inverted cone is turned slowly on the rotisserie, next to a vertical cooking element.
The operator uses a knife to slice thin shavings from the outer layer of the meat as it cooks.
The vertical rotisserie was invented in the 19th-century Ottoman Empire, and dishes such as the Arab shawarma, Greek gyros, Canadian donair, and Mexican al pastor are derived from this.
The modern sandwich variant of döner kebab originated and was popularized in 1970s West Berlin by Turkish immigrants.
This was recognized by the Berlin-based Association of Turkish Doner Manufacturers in Europe in 2011.
The sliced meat of a doner kebab may be served on a plate with various accompaniments, stuffed into a pita or other type of bread as a sandwich, or wrapped in a thin flatbread such as lavash or filo, known as a dürüm (literally meaning roll or wrap in Turkish).
Kadir Nurman in the early 1970s introduced the sandwich or wrap form, which has become popular around the world as a fast food dish sold by kebab shops, and is often called simply a "kebab".
The sandwich generally contains salad or vegetables, which may include tomato, lettuce, cabbage, onion with sumac, fresh or pickled cucumber, or chili, and various types of sauces.
Dressed herring, colloquially known as herring under a fur coat or furry herring (Russian: "сельдь под шубой", tr.
"sel'd pod shuboy" or "селёдка под шубой", "selyodka pod shuboy"), is a layered salad composed of diced pickled herring covered with layers of grated boiled eggs, vegetables (potatoes, carrots, beetroots), chopped onions, and mayonnaise.
Some variations of this dish include a layer of fresh grated apple while some do not.
A final layer of grated boiled beetroot covered with mayonnaise is what gives the salad its characteristic rich purple color.
Dressed herring salad is often decorated with grated boiled eggs (whites, yolks, or both).
Dressed herring salad is popular in Russia, Belarus (Belarusian: Селядзец пад футрам, romanized: Sieliadziec pad futram) and other countries such as Lithuania and Latvia, (Lithuanian: Silkė pataluose, Latvian: Siļķe kažokā).
It is especially popular for holidays, and is commonly served as a "zakuska" at New Year (Novy God) and Christmas celebrations in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia and Kazakhstan.
Drob, fully named Drob de Miel (Lamb Drob) or Drob de Paște (Easter Drob), is a traditional Romanian dish of lamb offals (liver, lungs, spleen, heart, kidney), green onions, herbs (dill, parsley, garlic, lovage), eggs (boiled or fresh), and bread soaked in water or milk.
The boiled offals are chopped and mixed with all the other ingredients and seasoned with salt and pepper.
The caul of the lamb is stretched over a loaf pan and filled with the mixture.
Lamb drob is one of the most popular traditional dishes, so there are a number of variations of the recipe.
One of these is the use of a sheet of dough instead of the caul.
Usually, boiled eggs are placed in the middle of the loaf.
In the world there are a few dishes similar to lamb drob, such as haggis, or faggots.
However, while haggis uses mutton or lamb it is boiled in the stomach of the sheep, while faggots, which do use the caul, are made from pork offal.
Drunken shrimp (simplified Chinese: 醉虾; traditional Chinese: 醉蝦; pinyin: zuìxiā), also known as drunken prawns, is a popular dish in parts of China based on freshwater shrimp that are sometimes eaten cooked or raw.
The shrimp are immersed in liquor to make consumption easier, thus the name "drunken".
Different parts of China have different recipes for the dish.
For example, the shrimp are sometimes soaked in alcohol and then cooked in boiling water rather than served live, and in other recipes cooked shrimp are marinated in alcohol after they are boiled.
Another version is based on shrimp that are submerged in a bowl of rice wine.
The rice wine forces the shrimp to expel their wastes; the shrimp are then eaten, generally after their movement has ceased.
Half-cooked drunken shrimp
Consuming uncooked freshwater shrimps may be a serious health hazard due to the risk of paragonimiasis.
Egg salad is a dish consisting of chopped hard-boiled or scrambled eggs, mustard, and mayonnaise, and vegetables often including other ingredients such as celery.
It is made mixed with seasonings in the form of herbs, spices and other ingredients, bound with mayonnaise.
It is similar to chicken salad, ham salad, macaroni salad, tuna salad, lobster salad, and crab salad.
A typical egg salad is made of chopped hard-boiled eggs, mayonnaise, mustard, minced celery and onion, salt, black pepper and paprika.
A common use is as a filling for egg sandwiches.
It is also often used as a topping for a green salad.
Eggs Benedict is a common American breakfast or brunch dish, consisting of two halves of an English muffin, each topped with Canadian bacon, a poached egg, and hollandaise sauce.
It was popularized in New York City.
Eggs Sardou is a Louisiana Creole cuisine dish made with poached eggs, artichoke bottoms, creamed spinach and Hollandaise sauce.
It is on the menu of many Creole restaurants in New Orleans, including Antoine's, where eggs Sardou was invented, and at Brennan's.
Eggs Sardou is named for Victorien Sardou, a famous French dramatist of the 19th century, who was a guest in New Orleans when the dish was invented.
Eiernockerl (German for "egg dumplings") is a simple and popular Austrian dish of the Viennese cuisine.
Faggots are meatballs made from minced off-cuts and offal (especially pork, and traditionally pig's heart, liver, and fatty belly meat or bacon) mixed with herbs and sometimes bread crumbs.
It is a traditional dish in the United Kingdom, especially South and Mid Wales and the English Midlands.
Faggots originated as a traditional cheap food consumed by ordinary country people in Western England, particularly west Wiltshire and the West Midlands.
Their popularity spread from there, especially to South Wales in the mid-nineteenth century, when many agricultural workers left the land to work in the rapidly expanding industry and mines of that area.
Faggots are also known as "ducks" in Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, and Lancashire, often as "savoury ducks".
The first use of the term in print was in the Manchester Courier and Lancashire General Advertiser of Saturday 3 June 1843, a news report of a gluttonous man who ate twelve of them.
Fairy bread is sliced white bread spread with butter or margarine and covered with "Hundreds and Thousands", often served at children's parties in Australia and New Zealand.
It is typically cut into triangles.
Fattoush (Arabic: فتوش; also fattush, fatush, fattoosh, and fattouche) is a Levantine salad made from toasted or fried pieces of khubz (Arabic flat bread) combined with mixed greens and other vegetables, such as radishes and tomatoes.
Fattoush is popular among communities in the Levant.
Fios de ovos (literally "egg threads", also known as "angel hair" in English) is a traditional Portuguese sweet food made of eggs (chiefly yolks), drawn into thin strands and boiled in sugar syrup.
They can be found in Thai dessert and been traditional dish since 16th centuries, around 1679.
They are a traditional element in Portuguese and Brazilian cuisine, both in desserts and as side dishes (only in Brazil).
This dish is called Letria in Goa, not to be confused with the vermicelli dessert made in Portugal.
The preparation is also known in Spain as Huevo hilado ("spun egg"), in Japan as Keiran Somen (鶏卵素麺, "hen's egg noodle"), in Cambodia as Vawee, in Malaysia as Jala mas ("golden net"), in Thailand as Foi Thong (ฝอยทอง; "golden strands"), and in the North Malabar region of Kerala, India as Muttamala (മുട്ടമാല; "egg lace").
Fish amok or amok trei (Khmer: អាម៉ុកត្រី ) is a Khmer steamed fish curry (amok) with a mousse-like consistency, considered one of Cambodia's national dishes.
Fish amok is believed to have been a royal Khmer dish dating back to the Khmer Empire, although some question it originating in Cambodia.
Fish soup is a food made by combining fish or seafood with vegetables and stock, juice, water, or another liquid.
Hot soups are additionally characterized by boiling solid ingredients in liquids in a pot until the flavors are extracted, forming a broth.
Traditionally, soups are classified into two main groups: clear soups and thick soups.
The established French classifications of clear soups are bouillon and consommé.
Thick soups are classified depending upon the type of thickening agent used: bisques are made from puréed shellfish or vegetables thickened with cream; cream soups may be thickened with béchamel sauce; and veloutés are thickened with eggs, butter, and cream.
Other ingredients commonly used to thicken soups and broths include rice, lentils, flour, and grains; many popular soups also include carrots and potatoes.
Fish soups are similar to fish stews, and in some cases there may not be a clear distinction between the two; however, fish soups generally have more liquid than stews.
Fish soups have been made since early times.
Some soups are served with large chunks of fish or vegetables left in the liquid, while a broth is a flavored liquid usually derived from simmering a food or vegetable for a period of time in a stock.
Bisques are heavy cream soups traditionally prepared with shellfish, but can be made with any type of seafood or puree of vegetables or fruits.
Cream soups are flavored broths thickened with a white sauce.
Although they may be consumed on their own, or with a meal, the canned, condensed form of cream soup is sometimes used as a quick sauce in a variety of meat and pasta convenience food dishes, such as casseroles.
Similar to a bisque, chowders are thick soups usually containing seafood and potatoes, milk and cream.
A floating island or île flottante (French: ) is a dessert consisting of meringue floating on crème anglaise (a vanilla custard).
The meringue used is baked in a bain-marie.
It may be served at room temperature or chilled.
Flying Jacob (Swedish: flygande Jacob/Jakob pronounced ) is a Swedish casserole composed of chicken, cream, chilli sauce, bananas, roasted peanuts and bacon.
The dish is baked in an oven and is usually served with rice and a salad.
The dish was invented by Ove Jacobsson, who worked in the air freight industry, hence the name.
Asked to make the main dish for a neighbourhood potluck in Stockholm in 1976, Jacobsson combined the few ingredients available to him in his refrigerator into a casserole, cooked it, and served it at the party, where it was a hit.
His neighbor, Anders Tunberg, worked for Allt om Mat (All about Food) magazine, and thus the recipe was first published in a Swedish cooking magazine in 1976.
Fondue (UK: /ˈfɒnd(j)uː/, US: /fɒnˈd(j)uː/, French: ) is a Swiss melted cheese and wine dish served in a communal pot (caquelon or fondue pot) over a portable stove (réchaud) heated with a candle or spirit lamp, and eaten by dipping bread and sometimes vegetables into the cheese using long-stemmed forks.
It was promoted as a Swiss national dish by the Swiss Cheese Union (Schweizerische Käseunion) in the 1930s, and was popularized in North America in the 1960s.
Since the 1950s, the term "fondue" has been generalized to other dishes in which a food is dipped into a communal pot of liquid kept hot in a fondue pot: chocolate fondue, fondue au chocolat, in which pieces of fruit or pastry are dipped into a melted chocolate mixture, and fondue bourguignonne, in which pieces of meat are cooked in hot oil or broth.
Fricassee or fricassée /ˈfrɪkəsiː/ is a stew made with pieces of meat that have been browned in butter then served in a sauce flavored with the cooking stock.
Fricassee is usually made with chicken, veal or rabbit, with variations limited only by what ingredients the cook has at hand.
Frico (in original Friulian language fricò) is a traditional dish of Friuli, a region in northeast Italy, consisting mainly of heated cheese and, optionally, other ingredients, such as potatoes.
Originally frico was prepared in the impoverished region as a way of recycling cheese rinds.
There are two popular versions of the dish: one soft and thick, which is usually served in slices, and the other thin and crunchy, which can be used either as a garnish or as an appetizer.
While the soft version has a long tradition, the history of the thin version is disputed.
The first recipes for frico date to around 1450 by Maestro Martino, cook of the camerlengo of the Aquileia patriarch.
Frico has similarities to another Alpine dish, rösti.
Fried chicken, also known as Southern fried chicken, is a dish consisting of chicken pieces that have been coated with seasoned flour or batter and pan-fried, deep fried, pressure fried, or air fried.
The breading adds a crisp coating or crust to the exterior of the chicken while retaining juices in the meat.
Broiler chickens are most commonly used.
The first dish known to have been deep fried was fritters, which were popular in the European Middle Ages.
However, the Scottish were the first Europeans to deep fry their chicken in fat.
Meanwhile, many West African peoples had traditions of seasoned fried chicken (though battering and cooking the chicken in palm oil).
A fried egg is a cooked dish made from one or more eggs which are removed from their shells and placed into a frying pan and fried.
They are traditionally eaten for breakfast in many countries but may also be served at other times of the day.
Fried fish is any fish or shellfish that has been prepared by frying.
Often, the fish is covered in batter, egg and breadcrumbs, flour, or herbs and spices before being fried and served, often with a slice of lemon.
Fish is fried in many parts of the world, and fried fish is an important food in many cuisines.
For many cultures, fried fish is historically derived from pescado frito, and the traditional fish and chips dish of England which it may have inspired.
The latter remains a staple take-out dish of the UK and its former and present colonies.
Fried fishcakes made of cod (and other white fish, such as haddock, halibut or whiting) are widely available in the frozen food sections of U.S. grocery stores.
Long John Silver's, Skippers, Captain D's, and Arthur Treacher's are well-known North American chain restaurants that serve fried fish as their main food offering.
Catfish are also a prevalent farm-raised type of fish that is often served fried throughout the world.
A classic fried fish recipe from France is sole meunière.
Frittata is an egg-based Italian dish similar to an omelette or crustless quiche or scrambled eggs, enriched with additional ingredients such as meats, cheeses, or vegetables.
The word frittata is Italian and roughly translates to "fried".
Fruit salad is a dish consisting of various kinds of fruit, sometimes served in a liquid, either their juices or a syrup.
In different forms, fruit salad can be served as an appetizer or a side as a salad.
A fruit salad is sometimes known as a fruit cocktail (often connoting a canned product), or fruit cup (when served in a small container).
There are many types of fruit salad, ranging from the basic (no nuts, marshmallows, or dressing) to the moderately sweet (Waldorf salad) to the sweet (ambrosia salad).
Another "salad" containing fruit is a jello salad, with its many variations.
A fruit cocktail is well-defined in the US to mean a well-distributed mixture of small diced pieces of (from highest percentage to lowest) peaches, pears, pineapple, grapes, and cherry halves.
Fruit salad may also be canned (with larger pieces of fruit than a cocktail).
Fårikål (Norwegian pronunciation: ) is a traditional Norwegian dish, and the country's national dish.
It consists of pieces of mutton with bone, cabbage, whole black pepper and occasionally a little wheat flour, cooked for several hours in a casserole, traditionally served with potatoes boiled in their skins.
The dish is typically prepared in early autumn, and over 70 % of the Norwegian population reports eating the dish at least once during this time period.
Fårikål Feast Day is celebrated on the last Thursday in September each year.
Gaisburger Marsch (German for "march of Gaisburg") is a traditional Swabian beef stew, named after Gaisburg, a district of Stuttgart.
The meat, cooked in a strong beef broth, is cut into cubes and served with cooked potatoes and Spätzle.
The broth is poured over the dish before topping with golden-brown onions fried in butter.
One explanation for the name Gaisburger Marsch is that the dish was so popular in the 19th century among officer candidates that they marched all the way to Gaisburg where their favorite dish was served in the restaurant called Bäckerschmide.
Another version claims that locals from Gaisburg became prisoners of war and their women were only allowed to bring them one meal every day, so they created this nourishing dish and marched with it to the camp.
The district of Gaisburg (today part Stuttgart Ost) hosts annual celebrations with a festival lasting several days.
Gaisburger Marsch is the favourite food of ex-Bundespräsident Horst Köhler, Wolfgang Schneiderhan and Chef Harald Wohlfahrt.
Gibanica (Serbian Cyrillic: гибаница, pronounced ) is a traditional pastry dish popular all over the Balkans.
It is usually made with cottage cheese and eggs.
Recipes can range from sweet to savoury, and from simple to festive and elaborate multi-layered cakes.
A derivative of the Serbo-Croatian verb gibati/гибати meaning "to fold; sway, swing, rock", the pastry was mentioned in Vuk Stefanović Karadžić's Serbian Dictionary in 1818 and by a Slovenian priest Jožef Kosič in 1828, where it was described as a special Slovenian cake which is "a must at wedding festivities and is also served to workers after finishing a big project".
It is a type of layered strudel, a combination of Turkish and Austrian influences in different cuisines of the former Yugoslavia.
Today the versions of this cake can be found in Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia, North Macedonia and other regions of the former Yugoslavia.
Variants of this rich layered strudel are found in Hungary, Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey, and Syria.
Gibanica may sometimes also refer to a walnut roll, which is a sweet bread with a spiral of walnut paste rolled up inside.
Gingerbread refers to a broad category of baked goods, typically flavored with ginger, cloves, nutmeg, and cinnamon and sweetened with honey, sugar, or molasses.
Gingerbread foods vary, ranging from a moist loaf cake to forms nearly as crisp as a ginger snap.
Gyros, sometimes anglicized as a gyro (/ˈjɪəroʊ, ˈdʒɪər-, ˈdʒaɪr-/; Greek: γύρος, romanized: yíros/gyros, lit.'turn', pronounced ) in some regions, is meat cooked on a vertical rotisserie, then sliced and served wrapped or stuffed in pita bread, along with other ingredients such as tomato, onion, fried potatoes, and tzatziki.
In Greece, it is normally made with pork or sometimes with chicken, whilst beef and lamb are also used in other countries.
Gyros is similar to other dishes such as the Arab shawarma, Canadian donair, and Mexican al pastor, all of which are derived from the Turkish doner kebab.
Gyūtan (牛タン) is a Japanese food that is made from grilled beef tongue.
The word gyūtan is a combination of the Japanese word for cow (牛, gyū) and the English word tongue.
Since gyūtan literally means "cow tongue," the word is also used to refer to cow tongues in Japan.
The custom of cooking gyūtan originated in Sendai in 1948, and is usually served with barley rice, tail soup, and pickles in the Sendai area.
In other areas in Japan, gyūtan is most often served in yakiniku restaurants.
Gyūtan was originally conceived to be flavored with salt, which led to gyūtan being called tanshio (タン塩, lit. "tongue salt") in many yakiniku restaurants.
However, some stores now serve gyūtan with tare sauce.
Ham and eggs is a dish combining various preparations of those two ingredients.
It has been described as a staple of "an old-fashioned American breakfast".
It is also served as a lunch and dinner dish.
Some notable people have professed an affinity for the dish, such as American entrepreneur Duncan Hines and the Manchurian Emperor Puyi.
Similar dishes include bacon and eggs, Spanish eggs, the Denver omelette and Eggs Benedict.
The term ham and eggs and some variations of it have been used in various cultural contexts.
It has been used as a slang term in the United States, and has also been used to refer to various entities and events there.
Hamburg steak is a patty of ground beef.
Made popular worldwide by migrating Germans, it became a mainstream dish around the start of the 19th century.
It is related to Salisbury steaks, which also use ground beef.
It is considered the origin of the ubiquitous hamburger, when, in the early 20th century, vendors began selling the Hamburg steak as a sandwich between bread.
A hamburger, or simply burger, is a food consisting of fillings—usually a patty of ground meat, typically beef—placed inside a sliced bun or bread roll.
Hamburgers are often served with cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, pickles, bacon, or chilis; condiments such as ketchup, mustard, mayonnaise, relish, or a "special sauce", often a variation of Thousand Island dressing; and are frequently placed on sesame seed buns.
A hamburger patty topped with cheese is called a cheeseburger.
Hamburgers are often sold at fast-food restaurants and diners, but are also sold at various other restaurants.
There are many international and regional variations of hamburger.
Some of the largest multinational fast-food chains have a burger as one of their core products: McDonald's Big Mac and Burger King's Whopper have become global icons of American culture.
Hangtown fry is a type of omelette made famous during the California Gold Rush in the 1850s.
The most common version includes bacon and oysters combined with eggs, and fried together.
Hoppel poppel is an egg casserole made with leftovers, a dish associated with frugal housewives.
Found in German and Austrian cuisine, the casserole dish is also associated with the Midwestern United States.
The basic recipe for the casserole is home fries (fried potatoes), scrambled eggs, and onion.
Sometimes it is topped with melted cheese.
Other ingredients like green pepper or mushrooms can be added to the basic combination, and a variety of meats can be used including bacon, ham and salami.
A hot dog is a dish consisting of a grilled, steamed, or boiled sausage served in the slit of a partially sliced bun.
The term hot dog can refer to the sausage itself.
The sausage used is a wiener (Vienna sausage) or a frankfurter (Frankfurter Würstchen, also just called frank).
The names of these sausages commonly refer to their assembled dish.
Hot dog preparation and condiments vary worldwide.
Typical condiments include mustard, ketchup, relish, onions in tomato sauce, and cheese sauce.
Other toppings include sauerkraut, diced onions, jalapeños, chili, grated cheese, coleslaw, bacon and olives.
Hot dog variants include the corn dog and pigs in a blanket.
The hot dog's cultural traditions include the Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest and the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile.
These types of sausages were culturally imported from Germany and became popular in the United States.
It became a working-class street food in the U.S., sold at stands and carts.
The hot dog became closely associated with baseball and American culture.
Although particularly connected with New York City and its cuisine, the hot dog eventually became ubiquitous throughout the US during the 20th century.
Its preparation varies regionally in the country, emerging as an important part of other regional cuisines, including Chicago street cuisine.
Hutspot (Dutch), hochepot (French), or hotchpotch (English), is a dish of boiled and mashed potatoes, carrots, and onions with a long history in traditional Dutch cuisine.
Hutspot is also found in the Indonesian cuisine due to their colonial ties.
Iced coffee is a coffee beverage served cold.
It may be prepared either by brewing coffee normally (i.e.
carafe, French press, etc.)
and then serving it over ice or in cold milk or by brewing the coffee cold.
In hot brewing, sweeteners and flavoring may be added before cooling, as they dissolve faster.
Iced coffee can also be sweetened with pre-dissolved sugar in water.
Iced coffee is regularly available in most coffee shops.
Iced coffee is generally brewed at a higher strength than normal coffee, given that it is diluted by the melting ice.
In Australia, "iced coffee" is a common term for packaged coffee-flavored and sweetened milk beverage.
Irish stew (Irish: Stobhach Gaelach) or Stobhach is a stew native to Ireland that is traditionally made with root vegetables and lamb or mutton, but also commonly with beef.
As in all traditional folk dishes, the exact recipe is not consistent from time to time, or place to place.
Basic ingredients include lamb, or mutton (mutton is used as it comes from less tender sheep over a year old, is fattier, and has a stronger flavour; mutton was cheaper and more common in less-affluent times), as well as potatoes, onions, and parsley.
It may sometimes also include carrots.
Irish stew is also made with kid.
Irish stew is a celebrated Irish dish, yet its composition is a matter of dispute.
Purists maintain that the only acceptable and traditional ingredients are neck mutton chops or kid, potatoes, onions, and water.
Others would add such items as carrots, turnips and pearl barley; but the purists maintain that they spoil the true flavour of the dish.
The ingredients are boiled and simmered slowly for up to two hours.
Salt can be added before or after the cooking.
Mutton was the dominant ingredient because the economic importance of sheep lay in their wool and milk produce and this ensured that only old or economically non-viable animals ended up in the cooking pot, where they needed hours of slow cooking.
Irish stew is the product of a culinary tradition that relied almost exclusively on cooking over an open fire.
It seems that Irish stew was recognised as early as about 1800.
Irish stew is considered a national dish of Ireland.
Iron egg (Chinese: 鐵蛋; pinyin: tiědàn) is a special version of soy egg, a snack from Taiwan.
They are considered a delicacy and originated in the Tamsui District of New Taipei City.
The dish consists of small eggs that have been repeatedly stewed in a mix of spices and air-dried.
The resulting eggs are dark brown on the outside, chewy in texture, and very flavourful compared to standard boiled eggs.
It has been said to taste "sweet, spicy and slightly salty with a concentrated egg flavour—a great snack with drinks".
Iron eggs were popularized by shopkeeper Yang Bi-yun (楊碧雲), who opened the first store selling the product in Tamsui in 1980.
She claimed her eggs were invented by accident when, on a slow day at her snack stall, she had to continually recook soy eggs (滷蛋) to keep them warm after taking them out of the soy sauce broth.
The recooking and drying process eventually resulted in shrunken eggs that were dark, flavourful, and chewy, which were extremely popular with the locals.
Yang eventually founded a new business based on her iron egg recipe, packaging and selling them under the brand Apotiedan (阿婆鐵蛋; 'Grandma's iron eggs').
Although Yang maintained that her iron egg was the original, a Tamsui local legend claims a noodle stall owner named Huang Chang-nian (黃張哖) invented the iron egg in the 1970s.
Iron eggs can only be created by the use of "chicken, pigeon or quail eggs" but not from duck eggs.
Quail eggs are very popular.
The popularity of iron eggs has risen and they can be found in other regions besides Taiwan, such as in Africa and the Middle East.
Jeon (Korean: 전, 煎) is a fritter in Korean cuisine made by seasoning whole, sliced, or minced fish, meat, vegetables, etc., and coating them with wheat flour and egg wash before frying them in oil.
Jeon can be made with ingredients such as fish, meat, poultry, seafood, and vegetable, and be served as an appetizer, a banchan (side dish), or an anju (food served and eaten with drinks).
Some jeons are sweet desserts; one such variety is called hwajeon (literally "flower jeon").
Jianbing (simplified Chinese: 煎饼; traditional Chinese: 煎餅; pinyin: jiānbǐng; lit. 'pan-fried bing') is a traditional Chinese street food similar to crêpes.
It is a type of bing generally eaten for breakfast and hailed as "one of China's most popular street breakfasts."
The main ingredients of jianbing are a batter of wheat and grain flour, eggs and sauces, cooked quickly by spreading the batter on a large frying pan or a specialized flat hotplate.
It can be topped with different fillings and sauces such as baocui (薄脆, thin and crispy fried cracker), ham, chopped or diced mustard pickles, scallions and coriander, chili sauce, or hoisin sauce depending on personal preference.
It is often folded several times before serving.
Jianbing has seen international popularization in recent years and can be found in the West, sometimes with modifications to cater to local tastes.
Jokbal(족발) is a Korean dish consisting of pig's trotters cooked with soy sauce and spices.
It is usually braised in a combination of soy sauce, ginger, garlic, and rice wine.
Additional ingredients used can include onion, leeks, garlic, cinnamon, and black pepper.
Jujeh kabab (Persian: جوجه‌ کباب, literally "grilled chick") is an Iranian dish that consists of grilled chunks of chicken which are sometimes with bone and other times without bone.
It is one of the most common and popular dishes of Iran.
It is common to marinate the chunks in minced onion, lemon juice and saffron.
It is sometimes spelled as Joojeh kabab.
Often served on chelo rice or wrapped in lavash bread, both of which are staples in the Iranian cuisine.
The former is more often served in restaurants and elaborate parties such as wedding receptions while the latter is often eaten in domestic settings, kebab joints and picnics or packed for road trips.
Other optional components include grilled tomatoes, peppers (grilled or raw), fresh lemons or other vegetables.
Jägerschnitzel (German for 'hunter's cutlet', in French escalope chasseur) is a German dish made of a roast veal or pork cutlet with a sauce made of mushrooms and tomatoes or cream.
In regional cuisine the dish can also be a schnitzel made of breaded, roasted jagdwurst with tomato sauce and Spätzle noodles.
Kai yang or gai yang (Thai: ไก่ย่าง, pronounced , lit. 'grilled chicken'), also known as kai ping or gai ping (Thai: ไก่ปิ้ง), or pīng kai (Lao: ປີ້ງໄກ່, ), is a Lao dish originating in Laos, but it is now commonly eaten throughout the whole of Thailand.
The dish is a standard staple of street markets and readily available at all times.
Being a typical Laotian dish, it is often paired with green papaya salad and sticky rice (Thai/Isan: ข้าวเหนียว, pronounced ; Lao: ເຂົ້າໜຽວ or eaten with sticky rice in bamboo (khao lam in Lao).
It is also eaten with raw vegetables, and often dipped in spicy sauces such as Laotian jaew bong.
In Thailand, there are also many famous Thai Muslim varieties of kai yang which are not of Lao origin at all, but more akin to the grilled chicken from Malaysia.
Kaiserschmarrn (German pronunciation: ) or Kaiserschmarren (German: ) (Emperor's Mess) is a lightly sweetened pancake that takes its name from the Austrian emperor (Kaiser) Franz Joseph I, who was fond of this fluffy shredded pancake.
It is served as a dessert or as a light lunch alongside apple sauce and contains raisins or dried cranberries.
Kaiserschmarrn is a popular meal or dessert in Austria, Bavaria, and many parts of the former Austro-Hungarian empire, e.g.
Hungary, Slovenia, Czech Republic and northern Croatia, which usually use the name as a loan word or translations of it.
In Slovenia, it is called "cesarski praženec" or "šmorn".
Its Hungarian name is "császármorzsa" or "smarni"; its Czech name is "(Císařský) trhanec" or "kajzršmorn".
In Slovak it is named "Cisársky trhanec".
Kammerjunker (lit. chamber-page) is a type of Danish sweet biscuit, which is typically eaten with koldskål, a buttermilk-based dessert.
Like koldskål, kammerjunker are eaten mostly in the summer.
Kammerjunker are made from a dough of wheat flour, fat (for example, butter), eggs, sugar, salt, and baking soda.
The dough is formed into rolls, pre-baked, sliced, and then baked again to completion.
The dough is sometimes spiced with vanilla, lemon zest or cardamom, in some cases all three together.
All three spices are used frequently in Scandinavian baking.
Karaage (唐揚げ, 空揚げ, or から揚げ, ) is a Japanese cooking technique in which various foods—most often chicken, but also other meat and fish—are deep fried in oil.
The process involves lightly coating small pieces of the meat or fish with a combination of flour and potato starch or corn starch, and frying in a light oil.
The foods are marinated prior to coating.
The process differs from the preparation of tempura, which is not marinated and uses a batter for coating.
Karaage is often served alone or with rice and shredded cabbage.
When the main ingredient is coated with starch instead of flour, the dish may be called Tatsuta-age (竜田揚げ).
Katsu ika odori-don (活いか踊り丼, dancing squid rice bowl) is a Japanese dish consisting of a fresh squid atop either rice or noodles.
Upon pouring soy sauce on the squid, it squirms ("dances") as the muscles react to the sodium in the sauce, in a similar manner to how frog legs twitch when being seasoned.
The dish is commonly served with salmon eggs and other toppings.
Khoresh (Persian: خورش) or Khoresht (Persian: خورشت, Sorani Kurdish: خۆرشت) is a generic Iranian term for stew dishes in the Iranian cuisine, Afghan cuisine, Tajik cuisine and also Kurdish cuisine.
The word is a substantive of the verb khordan (Persian: خوردن) "to eat" and literally means "meal".
It generally refers to different stews in the Iranian, Afghan and Kurdish cuisine, and is typically served beside pilaf (rice).
In Iranian cuisines there are many different khoresh with many unique ingredients.
Vegetarian khoreshes are common.
Iranian stews use desired amounts of saffron to give a distinctive and fragrant taste.
The most popular khoreshes in Iranian cuisine are gheimeh, ghormeh sabzi and fesenjan.
Kibbeh (/ˈkɪbi/, also kubba and other spellings; Arabic: كبة, romanized: kibba), İçli köfte in Türkiye, Koupes in Cyprus, is a family of dishes based on spiced ground meat, onions, and grain, popular in many countries of West Asia.
In Levantine cuisine, kibbeh is usually made by pounding bulgur wheat together with meat into a fine paste and forming it into balls with toasted pine nuts and spices.
It may also be layered and cooked on a tray, deep-fried, grilled, or served raw.
In Mesopotamian cuisine, versions with rice or farina are found.
Some recipes add semolina.
Kibbeh is considered to be a national dish of Lebanon and Syria, and is a popular dish in the Levant.
Versions are found in Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Palestine, Iraq, the Persian Gulf, Armenia, and Turkey, and among Assyrian people.
It is also found throughout Latin American countries that received substantial numbers of immigrants from the Levant during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, as well as parts of North America.
Kimchi-buchimgae (김치부침개) or kimchi-jeon (김치전), is a variety of buchimgae or jeon.
It is primarily made with sliced kimchi, flour batter and sometimes other vegetables.
However, meat (ground pork) is also often added.
Kimchi, spicy pickled vegetables seasoned with chili pepper and jeotgal, is a staple in Korean cuisine.
The dish is good for using up ripened kimchi.
Kimchibuchimgae is often recognized in Korean culture as a folk dish of low profile that anyone could make easily at home with no extra budget.
It is usually served as some banchan, appetizer or snack.
When preparing kimchi-jeon, brine from kimchi is often added, especially that of baechu-kimchi, made from Napa cabbage.
The brine lends its red color to the batter but is not spicy itself.
Along with kimchi, it is served as anju with alcoholic beverages such as makgeolli or dongdongju.
These days, in addition to the basic ingredients, it is often made with various ingredients such as seafood or cheese.
Kogel mogel (Yiddish: גאָגל-מאָגל gogl-mogl; Polish: kogel-mogel; Norwegian: eggedosis; German: Zuckerei; Russian: гоголь-моголь gogol-mogol) is an egg-based homemade dessert once popular in parts of Europe.
It is made from egg yolks, sugar, and flavourings such as honey, vanilla, cocoa or rum, similar to eggnog or zabaione.
In its classic form it is served slightly chilled or at room temperature.
Served warm or hot, it is considered a home remedy for sore throats.
Variations include milk, honey and soda.
Kransekage (Danish) or kransekake (Norwegian) is a traditional Danish and Norwegian confection, often eaten on special occasions in Scandinavia.
In English, the name means wreath cake.
In Norway it is alternatively referred to as tårnkake (English: tower cake) and often prepared for Constitution Day celebrations, Christmas, weddings, and baptisms.
In Denmark it is typically eaten as part of New Year celebrations, while a variation of the cake, overflødighedshorn, is traditionally served at weddings and baptisms.
The origin of the Kransekage can be traced to the 18th century, where it was first created by a baker in Copenhagen.
Käsespätzle (German for "spätzle with cheese", also called Käsknöpfle in Vorarlberg and Liechtenstein or Kasspatzln in Tyrol) is a traditional dish of the German regions of Swabia, Baden and Allgäu, and also in the Austrian regions Vorarlberg and Tyrol, as well as Liechtenstein and Switzerland.
Königsberger Klopse (German pronunciation: ), also known as Soßklopse are a German specialty of meatballs in a creamy white sauce with capers.
A lamington is an Australian cake made from squares of butter cake or sponge cake coated in an outer layer of chocolate sauce and rolled in desiccated coconut.
The thin mixture is absorbed into the outside of the sponge cake and left to set, giving the cake a distinctive texture.
A common variation has a layer of cream or strawberry jam between two lamington halves.
Leberknödel (German: ) is a traditional dish of German, Austrian and Czech cuisines.
Leberknödel are usually composed of beef liver, though in the German Palatinate region pork is used as an alternative.
The meat is ground and mixed with bread, eggs, parsley and various spices, often nutmeg or marjoram.
In Austria spleen is often mixed with the liver in a 1/3 ratio.
Using 2 moistened tablespoons, the batter is formed into dumplings and boiled in beef broth or fried in lard.
Due to their looser consistency, the boiled dumplings are meant to be eaten fresh after preparation, although the fried variant is somewhat less perishable due to the crust formed by frying.
In the Palatinate, Leberknödel are often served with sauerkraut and mashed potatoes.
In Bavaria and Austria, they are usually served in soup as Leberknödelsuppe (Liver dumpling soup).
Liver and onions is a dish consisting of slices of liver (usually pork, beef, chicken or, in the United Kingdom, lamb) and bulb onions.
The liver and the onions are usually sautéed or otherwise cooked together, but sometimes they may be sautéed separately and mixed together afterwards.
The liver is often cut in fine slices, but it also may be diced.
Liver pâté is a pâté and meat spread popular in Northern and Eastern Europe.
Made from finely or coarsely ground pork liver and lard, it is similar to certain types of French and Belgian pâtés.
Lobio (Georgian: ლობიო) is a traditional Georgian dish of various kinds of prepared beans (cooked or stewed), containing coriander, walnuts, garlic and onion.
There are many varieties of lobio, both hot and cold.
Lobster Thermidor is a French dish of lobster meat cooked in a rich wine sauce, stuffed back into a lobster shell, and browned.
The sauce is often a mixture of egg yolks and brandy (such as Cognac), served with an oven-browned cheese crust, typically Gruyère.
The sauce originally contained mustard (typically powdered mustard).
A macaron (/ˌmækəˈrɒn/ MAK-ə-RON, French: ) or French macaroon (/ˌmækəˈruːn/ MAK-ə-ROON) is a sweet meringue-based confection made with egg white, icing sugar, granulated sugar, almond meal, and often food colouring.
Since the 19th century, a typical Parisian-style macaron is a sandwich cookie filled with a ganache, buttercream or jam.
As baked, the circular macaron displays a smooth, square-edged top, a ruffled circumference—referred to as the "crown" or "foot" (or "pied")—and a flat base.
It is mildly moist and easily melts in the mouth.
Macarons can be found in a wide variety of flavours that range from traditional sweet such as raspberry or chocolate to savoury (as a foie gras).
Macaroni and cheese (also called mac and cheese in Canada and the United States and macaroni cheese in the United Kingdom) is a dish of macaroni and a cheese sauce, most commonly cheddar sauce.
Its origins trace back to cheese and pasta casseroles dating to the 14th century in Italy and medieval England.
The traditional macaroni and cheese is a casserole baked in the oven; however, it may be prepared in a sauce pan on top of the stove or using a packaged mix.
The cheese is often first incorporated into a Béchamel sauce to create a Mornay sauce, which is then added to the pasta.
In the United States, it is considered a comfort food.
Makkaraperunat (Finnish for "sausage potatoes") is a street food dish popular in Finland and elsewhere.
The dish consists of french fries and slices of sausage, which can be deep-fried in fat or fried in the oven and is served with condiments.
The amount of condiments in the dish and the quality of the dish depends on the particular street food kiosk.
Condiments traditionally used in the dish include mustard, ketchup, onion, garlic, pickle relish and mayonnaise.
In Jyväskylä, the dish is known as taksari, short for taksimiehen erikoinen ("taxi driver's special"), in Rovaniemi as makkaraherkku ("sausage delight") and in Kuopio as sitä sun tätä ("this and that").
Mapo tofu (Chinese: 麻婆豆腐; pinyin: mápó dòufu) is a popular Chinese dish from Sichuan province.
It consists of tofu set in a spicy sauce, typically a thin, oily, and bright red suspension, based on douban (fermented broad bean and chili paste), and douchi (fermented black beans), along with minced meat, traditionally beef.
Variations exist with other ingredients such as water chestnuts, onions, other vegetables, or wood ear fungus.
One account indicates that the dish existed as early as 1254, in a suburb of Chengdu, the capital city of Sichuan.
Other accounts indicate it originated at a Chengdu restaurant in the 1860s.
Matsumaezuke (松前漬け) is a pickled dish of dried squid and kelp, native to the Matsumae area of Hokkaidō, Japan.
It is made from fresh ingredients of Hokkaidō.
Surume (dried squid) and konbu are wiped with wet cloth and then cut into thin strips with scissors.
Kazunoko (herring roe) are chopped into small bits, and carrot and ginger are julienned.
These ingredients are then mixed with a boiled mixture of sake, soy sauce and mirin.
Several slices of red pepper may be added.
The mixture is stored in a cool location for a week before eating.
In Australia and New Zealand, a meat pie is a hand-sized pie containing diced or minced meat and gravy, sometimes with onion, mushrooms, or cheese and is often consumed as a takeaway food snack.
This variant of the standard meat pie is considered iconic.
It was described by New South Wales Premier Bob Carr in 2003 as Australia's "national dish".
New Zealanders regard the meat pie as a part of New Zealand cuisine, and it forms part of the New Zealand national identity.
A meatball is ground meat (mince) rolled into a ball, sometimes along with other ingredients, such as bread crumbs, minced onion, eggs, butter, and seasoning.
Meatballs are cooked by frying, baking, steaming, or braising in sauce.
There are many types of meatballs using different types of meats and spices.
The term is sometimes extended to meatless versions based on vegetables or fish; the latter are also commonly known as fish balls.
Meatloaf is a dish of ground meat that has been combined with other ingredients and formed into the shape of a loaf, then baked or smoked.
The final shape is either hand-formed on a baking tray, or pan-formed by cooking it in a loaf pan.
It is usually made with ground beef, although ground lamb, pork, veal, venison, poultry, and seafood are also used, sometimes in combination.
Vegetarian adaptations of meatloaf may use imitation meat or pulses.
The cooked meatloaf can be sliced like a loaf of bread to make individual portions.
It can easily become dry; therefore, various techniques exist to keep the dish moist, like mixing in bread crumbs and egg, covering it with sauce, wrapping it, or using moisture-enhancing ingredients in the mixture, such as filling it with fatty meats, rich cheeses, or vegetables.
Mekitsa (Bulgarian: мекица, romanized: mekitsa, lit. 'softness'; plural mekitsi) is a traditional Bulgarian dish made of kneaded dough made with yogurt that is deep fried.
They are made with flour, eggs, yogurt, a leavening agent, water, salt, and oil.
In Serbia they are called mekike (sing. mekika), while in Macedonian mekica or pituljica, and in Bulgaria mekitsa.
They are similar to Hungarian lángos and British Yorkshire pudding.
Mekitsa is conventionally a breakfast dish.
After the dough rises, it is torn into small balls, spread into flat rounds and fried in oil.
In some recipes, yeast, baking soda, milk or yogurt might be used.
A recipe from Silistra involves yogurt and bread soda, one from a village near Stara Zagora uses yeast and yogurt, and a recipe from Aytos suggests yeast and milk.
One of the oldest known recipes contains only yeast, flour, salt and sugar and it uses water as the sole wet ingredient.
It is recommended that the shaping of mekitsi before their frying be done with wet or oiled hand hands, using most commonly vegetable oil.
When served, mekitsa is often powdered with icing sugar or garnished with jam, honey or sirene (white cheese).
It can also be eaten with yogurt.
In North Macedonia people prepare the dish the week after a newborn is born.
That is like a celebration for the newborn baby, tradition says that it should be in the house where the baby will live, but nowadays this celebration mostly happens in restaurants.
The dish IS popular in the Bulgarian, Macedonian, and Serbian regions and is a common cultural dish.
The name is derived from the Slavic root mek ("soft"), referring to the dish's texture.
–itsa is a Slavic feminine suffix.
It tastes like and also has the same ingredients as the naan flatbread of the Indian subcontinent but the only difference is that naan is baked in a traditional clay oven, called tandoor, unlike mekitsi.
Menemen is a popular traditional Turkish dish that includes eggs, tomato, green peppers, and spices such as ground black and red pepper cooked in olive oil.
Menemen may be made with onions, but the addition of onions is often debated and is more common when menemen is eaten as a main dish, rather than at breakfast.
The dish is similar to shakshouka.
Menemen is commonly eaten for breakfast and served with bread.
Its name originates from a small town in Izmir Province.
This dish is also similar to Hungarian Lecsó and Serbo-Croat Sataraš which might have descended from Menemen during the Ottoman imperial period.
Meunière (UK: /ˌmɜːniˈɛər/, US: /ˌmʌn-/, French: ; lit. 'miller's wife') is both a French sauce and a method of preparation, primarily for fish, consisting of brown butter, chopped parsley, and lemon.
The name suggests a simple rustic nature, i.e. that to cook something à la meunière was originally to cook it by first dredging it in flour.
Mince and tatties is a popular Scottish dish, consisting of minced beef and mashed potato.
The dish is also known in the island of Jamaica, mainly in the Cornish county, as the dish was introduced by the Scottish in the 1800s.
It sometimes contains other vegetables or thickening agents.
It has had a longtime association with school dinners, while other chefs have attempted to modernise the dish.
Mohinga (Burmese: မုန့်ဟင်းခါး; MLCTS: mun.hang: hka:, IPA: ; also spelt mont hin gar) is a rice noodle and fish soup from Myanmar and an essential part of Burmese cuisine, considered by many to be the national dish of Myanmar.
Mohinga is readily available in most parts of the country, sold by street hawkers and roadside stalls in larger cities.
Mohinga is traditionally eaten for breakfast, but today is eaten at any time of day.
Mohr im Hemd (German: , literally "Moor in  shirt") is an Austrian dessert.
It consists of a chocolate pudding topped with whipped cream, hence the name.
In modern times, the dish is often prepared with breadcrumbs to form a solid mass, resembling a lava cake or miniature gugelhupf, and served with chocolate sauce and whipped cream.
Older recipes more closely resemble a chocolate custard, with the primary ingredients being chocolate and eggs.
The racial connotations of the dish's name have drawn controversy.
In 2012, the human rights organization SOS Mitmensch publicly criticized the name, suggesting replacements such as Kuchen mit Schlag.
A mooncake (simplified Chinese: 月饼; traditional Chinese: 月餅) is a Chinese bakery product traditionally eaten during the Mid-Autumn Festival (中秋節).
The festival is primarily about the harvest while a legend connects it to moon watching, and mooncakes are regarded as a delicacy.
Mooncakes are offered between friends or on family gatherings while celebrating the festival.
The Mid-Autumn Festival is widely regarded as one of the four most important Chinese festivals.
There are numerous varieties of mooncakes consumed within China and outside of China in overseas Chinese communities.
The Cantonese mooncake is the most famous variety.
A traditional Cantonese mooncake is a round pastry, measuring about 10 cm (4 in) in diameter and 3–4 cm (1+1⁄4–1+1⁄2 in) thick, with a rich thick filling usually made from lotus seed paste (other typical fillings include red bean paste or mixed nuts) surrounded by a thin, 2–3 mm (approximately 1/8 of an inch) crust and may contain yolks from salted duck eggs.
Mooncakes are usually eaten in small wedges, accompanied by tea.
Today, it is customary for business people and families to present them to their clients or relatives as presents, helping to fuel a demand for high-end mooncakes.
Just as the Mid-Autumn Festival is celebrated in various Asian localities due to the presence of Chinese communities throughout the region, mooncakes are enjoyed in other parts of Asia too.
Mooncakes have also appeared in western countries as a form of delicacy.
Moussaka (/muːˈsɑːkə/, UK also /ˌmuːsəˈkɑː/, US also /ˌmuːsɑːˈkɑː/) is an eggplant- or potato-based dish, often including ground meat, which is common in the Balkans and the Middle East, with many local and regional variations.
The modern Greek variant was created in the 1920s by Nikolaos Tselementes.
Many versions have a top layer made of milk-based sauce thickened with egg (custard) or flour (béchamel sauce).
In Greece, the dish is layered and typically served hot.
Tselementes also proposed a vegan variant for orthodox fast days.
Romania also has a vegan version that replaces meat with mushrooms or a mix of sautéed onions and rice.
The versions in Egypt, Turkey and the rest of the Middle East are quite different.
In Egypt, messa'aa can be made vegan or vegetarian as well as with meat; in all cases, the main ingredient is the fried eggplant.
In Turkey, mussaka consists of thinly sliced and fried eggplant served in a tomato-based meat sauce, warm or at room temperature.
In Saudi Arabia muṣagga‘a is eaten hot, but in other Arab countries, it is often eaten cold, but occasionally hot as well.
Mozzarella sticks are elongated pieces of battered or breaded mozzarella, usually served as hors d'oeuvre.
A muffin is an individually portioned baked product; however, the term can refer to one of two distinct items: a part-raised flatbread (like a crumpet) that is baked and then cooked on a griddle (typically unsweetened), or a (often sweetened) quickbread that is chemically leavened and then baked in a mold.
While quickbread "American" muffins are often sweetened, there are savory varieties made with ingredients such as corn and cheese, and less sweet varieties like traditional bran muffins.
The flatbread "English" variety is of British or other European derivation, and dates from at least the early 18th century, while the quickbread originated in North America during the 19th century.
Both types are common worldwide today.
Mujaddara (Arabic: مجدًرة mujaddarah, with alternative spellings in English majadra, mejadra, moujadara, mudardara, and megadarra) is a dish consisting of cooked lentils together with groats, generally rice, and garnished with sautéed onions.
It is especially popular in the Levant.
Namerō (Japanese: なめろう, derived from 舐める nameru, "to lick") is a type of tataki, a manner of preparing fish or meat finely minced and mixed with some spices and seasonings, not unlike a tartare.
This recipe has been passed down among Bōsō Peninsula fishermen.
Ndolé is a Cameroonian dish consisting of stewed nuts, ndoleh (bitter leaves indigenous to West and Central Africa), and fish or beef.
The dish may also contain shrimp.
It is traditionally eaten with plantains, bobolo or miondo (a Cameroonian dish made of fermented ground manioc and wrapped in leaves), etc…
Neapolitan wafers (also called gaufrettes in some countries, though this term can refer to other foods) are wafer and chocolate-cream sandwich biscuits, first made by the Austrian company Manner in 1898.
Using hazelnuts imported from the area of Naples, Italy, to make the hazelnut-flavoured chocolate cream filling, they have five wafers and four layers of cream in their 49 millimetres (1.9 in) x 17 millimetres (0.67 in) x 17 millimetres (0.67 in) biscuit size.
The basic recipe has remained unchanged into the 21st century.
Manner still sells the biscuits in blocks of ten.
Many other companies have copied the idea, most often coating the bar in chocolate.
They were mass-produced in the USSR and the Eastern Bloc for their cheap production cost, long shelf-life and simple production method.
Up to this day they are a popular treat in Russia and post-soviet countries, especially popular among seniors.
Oden (おでん, 御田) is a type of nabemono (Japanese one-pot dishes) consisting of several ingredients such as boiled eggs, daikon or konjac, and processed fishcakes stewed in a light, soy-flavored dashi broth.
Oden was originally what is now commonly called misodengaku or simply dengaku; konjac (konnyaku) or tofu was boiled and eaten with miso.
Later, instead of using miso, ingredients were cooked in dashi, and oden became popular.
Ingredients vary according to region and between each household.
Karashi is often used as a condiment.
Oden is often sold from food carts, though some izakayas and several convenience store chains also serve it, and dedicated oden restaurants exist.
Many different varieties are sold, with single-ingredient dishes sometimes as cheap as 100 yen.
While it is usually considered a winter food, some carts and restaurants offer oden year-round.
Many of these restaurants keep their broth as a master stock, replenishing it as it simmers to let the flavor deepen and develop over many months and years.
Okonomiyaki (Japanese: お好み焼き, listen) is a Japanese teppanyaki, savory pancake dish consisting of wheat flour batter and other ingredients (mixed, or as toppings) cooked on a teppan (flat griddle).
Common additions include cabbage, meat, and seafood, and toppings include okonomiyaki sauce (made with Worcestershire sauce), aonori (dried seaweed flakes), katsuobushi (bonito flakes), Japanese mayonnaise, and pickled ginger.
Okonomiyaki is mainly associated with two distinct variants from Hiroshima or the Kansai region of Japan, but is widely available throughout the country, with toppings and batters varying by area.
The name is derived from the word okonomi, meaning "how you like" or "what you like", and yaki, meaning "grilled".
It is an example of konamono (konamon in the Kansai dialect), or flour-based Japanese cuisine.
It is also called by an abbreviated name, "okono", where the O is a politeness prefix and kono means ‘favorite’.
A liquid-based okonomiyaki, popular in Tokyo, is called monjayaki (also written as monja yaki) and abbreviated as "monja".
Outside of Japan, it can also be found served in Manila, Taipei, Bangkok, and Jakarta by street vendors.
Oladyi (Russian: оладьи pl., diminutive: оладушки, oladushki, sg.
оладья, oladya, Ukrainian: оладки, oladky) are small thick pancakes or fritters common in Russian and Ukrainian cuisines.
The batter for oladyi is made from wheat or (nowadays more rarely) buckwheat flour, eggs, milk, salt, and sugar with yeast or baking soda.
The batter may also contain kefir, soured milk or yoghurt.
Oladyi may also include various additions, such as apple or raisins.
Oladyi are usually served with smetana (sour cream), as well as with sweet toppings such as jam, powidl, honey etc.
Savoury versions may be served with caviar, similarly to blini.
Generally, the term oladki in Eastern Slavic cuisines may also denote fritters made with other ingredients, e.g.
potato pancakes (картофельные оладьи), carrot fritters (морковные оладьи), bean pancakes (оладьи из бобовых), rice pancakes (рисовые оладьи), summer squash fritters (кабачковые оладьи) etc.
Syrniki (tvorog pancakes) may also be considered a type of oladyi.
An omelette (also spelled omelet) is a dish made from eggs, fried with butter or oil in a frying pan.
It is a common practice for the omelette to be folded around fillings such as chives, vegetables, mushrooms, meat (often ham or bacon), cheese, onions or some combination of the above.
Whole eggs or egg whites are often beaten with a small amount of milk, cream, or water.
Omurice or omu-rice (オムライス, Omu-raisu) is a Japanese dish consisting of an omelette made with fried rice and thin, fried scrambled eggs, usually topped with ketchup.
It is a popular dish also commonly cooked at home.
Children in particular enjoy omurice.
It is often featured in Japan's version of a children's meal, okosama-ranchi (お子様ランチ).
Onsen tamago (Japanese: 温泉卵 or 温泉玉子, lit. 'hot spring egg') is a traditional Japanese low temperature boiled egg which is slow cooked in the hot waters of onsen in Japan.
The egg has a unique texture in that the white tastes like a delicate custard (milky and soft) and the yolk comes out firm, but retains the colour and creamy texture of an uncooked yolk.
This special texture is the result of the egg yolk and egg white solidifying at different temperatures.
The egg is poached within the shell and is served with the shell removed in a small cup together with a sauce of broth and soy sauce.
Oreo (/ˈɔːrioʊ/; stylized in all caps) is a brand of sandwich cookie consisting of two cocoa biscuits or cookie pieces with a sweet fondant filling.
It was introduced by Nabisco on March 6, 1912, and through a series of corporate acquisitions, mergers and splits both Nabisco and the Oreo brand have been owned by Mondelez International since 2012.
Oreo cookies are available in over one hundred countries.
Many varieties of Oreo cookies have been produced, and limited-edition runs have become popular in the 21st century.
Oreos are an imitation of the Hydrox chocolate cream-centered cookie introduced in 1908, but it outstripped Hydrox in popularity so largely that many believe Hydrox is an imitation of Oreo.
Oreo is the best-selling cookie brand in the United States and, as of 2014, the best-selling cookie globally.
Ovos moles de Aveiro (literally, "soft eggs from Aveiro")—sometimes written as ovos-moles de Aveiro—are a local pastry delicacy from Aveiro District, Portugal, made of egg yolks and sugar, and sometimes chocolate.
This mixture is then put inside small rice paper casings or wheat flour casings similar to communion wafers shaped into nautical shapes such as shells.
In 2008, it was designated a product with Protected Geographical Indication by the European Union.
Pain au chocolat (French pronunciation: , literally "bread with chocolate"), also known as chocolatine (pronounced ) in the south-west part of France and in French speaking parts of Canada, or couque au chocolat in Belgium, is a type of Viennoiserie pastry consisting of a cuboid-shaped piece of yeast-leavened laminated dough, similar in texture to a puff pastry, with one or two pieces of dark chocolate in the center.
The chocolate usually has a slight bite to the texture.
Pain au chocolat is made of the same layered doughs as a croissant.
Often sold still hot or warm from the oven, they are commonly sold alongside croissants in French bakeries and supermarkets.
Palatschinke (or palaccinka, plural palatschinken) is a thin crêpe-like variety of pancake of Greco-Roman origin.
The dessert is common in the Balkans, Central and Eastern Europe.
A pancake (or hotcake, griddlecake, or flapjack) is a flat cake, often thin and round, prepared from a starch-based batter that may contain eggs, milk and butter and cooked on a hot surface such as a griddle or frying pan, often frying with oil or butter.
It is a type of batter bread.
Archaeological evidence suggests that pancakes were probably eaten in prehistoric societies.
The pancake's shape and structure varies worldwide.
In the United Kingdom, pancakes are often unleavened and resemble a crêpe.
In North America, a leavening agent is used (typically baking powder) creating a thick fluffy pancake.
A crêpe is a thin Breton pancake of French origin cooked on one or both sides in a special pan or crepe maker to achieve a lacelike network of fine bubbles.
A well-known variation originating from southeast Europe is a palačinke, a thin moist pancake fried on both sides and filled with jam, cream cheese, chocolate, or ground walnuts, but many other fillings—sweet or savoury—can also be used.
Commercially prepared pancake mixes are available in some countries.
Like waffles, commercially prepared frozen pancakes are available from companies like Eggo.
When buttermilk is used in place of or in addition to milk, the pancake develops a tart flavor and becomes known as a buttermilk pancake, which is common in Scotland and the US.
Buckwheat flour can be used in a pancake batter, making for a type of buckwheat pancake, a category that includes blini, kaletez, ploye, and memil-buchimgae.
When potato is used as a major portion of the batter, the result is a potato pancake.
Pancakes may be served at any time of the day or year with a variety of toppings or fillings, but they have developed associations with particular times and toppings in different regions.
In North America, they are typically considered a breakfast food and serve a similar function to waffles.
In Britain and the Commonwealth, they are associated with Shrove Tuesday, commonly known as "Pancake Day", when, historically, perishable ingredients had to be used up before the fasting period of Lent.
Panzanella  or panmolle  is a Tuscan and Umbrian chopped salad of soaked stale bread, onions and tomatoes that is popular in the summer.
It often includes cucumbers, sometimes basil and is dressed with olive oil and vinegar.
It is also popular in other parts of central Italy.
A patty or burger (in British English) is a flattened, usually round, serving of ground meat and/or legumes, grains, vegetables, or meat alternatives.
Patties are found in multiple cuisines throughout the world.
In British and American English, minced meat that is formed into a disc is called a burger, whether it is in a bread roll or not.
The word "patty" is also used in American English but almost unknown in British English.
The ingredients are compacted and shaped, usually cooked, and served in various ways.
Peach Melba (French: pêche Melba, pronounced ) is a dessert of peaches and raspberry sauce with vanilla ice cream.
It was invented in 1892 or 1893 by the French chef Auguste Escoffier at the Savoy Hotel, London, to honour the Australian soprano Nellie Melba.
Peking duck is a dish from Beijing that has been prepared since the Imperial era.
The meat is characterized by its thin, crispy skin, with authentic versions of the dish serving mostly the skin and little meat, sliced in front of the diners by the cook.
Ducks bred especially for the dish are slaughtered after 65 days and seasoned before being roasted in a closed or hung oven.
The meat is often eaten with spring onion, cucumber and sweet bean sauce with pancakes rolled around the fillings.
Sometimes pickled radish is also inside.
Crispy aromatic duck is a similar dish to Peking duck and is popular in the United Kingdom.
A perpetual stew, also known as forever soup, hunter's pot, or hunter's stew, is a pot into which foodstuffs is placed and cooked.
The pot is never or rarely emptied all the way, and ingredients and liquid are replenished as necessary.
Such foods can continue cooking for decades or longer if properly maintained.
The concept is often a common element in descriptions of medieval inns.
Foods prepared in a perpetual stew have been described as being flavorful due to the manner in which the ingredients blend together.
Various ingredients can be used in a perpetual stew such as root vegetables, tubers (potatoes, yams, etc. ), and various meats.
Pickled eggs are typically hard-boiled eggs that are cured in vinegar or brine.
As with many foods, this was originally a way to preserve the food so that it could be eaten months later.
Pickled eggs have since become a favorite among many as a snack or hors d'œuvre popular in pubs, bars, and taverns, and around the world in places where beer is served.
After the eggs are hard-boiled, the shell is removed and they are submerged in a solution of vinegar, salt, spices, and other seasonings.
Recipes vary from the traditional brine solution for pickles to other solutions, which can impart a sweet or spicy taste.
The final taste is mostly determined by the pickling solution.
The eggs are left in this solution from one day to several months.
Prolonged exposure to the pickling solution may result in a rubbery texture.
A common practice is to puncture the egg with a toothpick to allow the pickling solution to penetrate to the egg's interior, but this is dangerous as it can introduce clostridium into the finished product.
Eggs prepared with this method have sometimes had high enough levels of botulinum toxin to cause illness in a human.
Pickled eggs may be served as part of a main course, hors d'œuvres, or garnishes.
Pinakbet (also called pakbet) is an indigenous Filipino dish from the northern regions of the Philippines.
Pinakbet is made with a variety of mixed vegetables flavored with bagoóng.
The word is the contracted from the Ilokano word pinakebbet, meaning "shrunk" or "shriveled."
Pinkel is a smoked Kaszanka (German: Grützwurst), which is a type of sausage.
It is eaten mainly in northwest Germany, especially the region around Oldenburg, Bremen and Osnabrück as well as in East Frisia and Friesland.
Pistou (Provençal: pisto (classical) or pistou (Mistralian), pronounced ), or pistou sauce, is a Provençal cold sauce made from cloves of garlic, fresh basil, and olive oil and sometimes almonds, bread crumbs or potatoes.
It is somewhat similar to the Ligurian sauce pesto, although it lacks pine nuts (but it can include almonds instead) and cheese even if some modern versions include cheese.
Plum cake refers to a wide range of cakes usually made with dried fruits such as currants, raisins, sultanas, or prunes, and also sometimes with fresh fruits.
There is a wide range of popular plum cakes and puddings.
Since the meaning of the word "plum" has changed over time, many items referred to as plum cakes and popular in England since at least the eighteenth century have now become known as fruitcake.
The English variety of plum cake also exists on the European mainland, but may vary in ingredients and consistency.
British colonists and missionaries brought the dried fruit variety of cake with them, for example, in British India where it was served around the time of the Christmas holiday season.
In America's Thirteen Colonies, where it became associated with elections, one version came to be called "election cake".
Plum cakes made with fresh plums came with other migrants elsewhere, in which plum cake is prepared using plum as a primary ingredient.
In some versions, the plums may become jam-like inside the cake after cooking, or be prepared using plum jam.
Plum cake prepared with plums is also a part of Ashkenazi Jewish cuisine, and is referred to as Pflaumenkuchen or Zwetschgenkuchen.
Other plum-based cakes are found in French, Italian and Polish cooking.
A poached egg is an egg that has been cooked, outside the shell, by poaching (or sometimes steaming), as opposed to simmering or boiling.
This method of preparation can yield more delicately cooked eggs than cooking at higher temperatures such as with boiling water.
Poached eggs can be served in several dishes.
Polbo á feira (literally meaning "fair-style octopus", pulpo a la gallega in Spanish, meaning Galician-style octopus), alternatively known as pulpo estilo feira, is a traditional Galician dish.
This dish is prepared by first boiling the octopus inside a copper cauldron.
Before boiling it, the octopus' tentacles are dipped in and out of the boiling water three times, while being held by its head—this is meant to curl the tips of the tentacles.
The tentacles are preferred over the head, which sometimes is discarded.
After the octopus has been boiled, it is trimmed with scissors, sprinkled with coarse salt and both sweet and spicy paprika (known in Galicia as pemento and pemento picante) and drizzled with olive oil.
The optimal cooking point is reached when the octopus is not rubbery but not overcooked, similarly to the al dente concept when cooking pasta.
This is after approximately a 20–45 minutes boil (approximately 15 min/kg octopus), provided the octopus is left to rest for a further 20 minutes inside the boiled water away from the fire.
The dish is traditionally served on wooden plates with bread.
Tradition dictates that water should not be drunk when eating octopus, so the dish is usually served accompanied by young Galician red wine.
Traditionally, this diatopic use of octopus was facilitated by its inland availability as stockfish.
In the last decades, frozen octopus has replaced dried octopus.
Fresh octopus is not so frequently used nowadays either, as it is necessary to pound it heavily before cooking to avoid the dish becoming rubbery.
This procedure can be skipped after freezing, which, unlike other seafood, does not alter the organoleptic properties of octopus.
The provinces of Ourense and Lugo have a reputation for good octopus cooking.
Fair-style octopus is the totemic food of the patron saint festivities of Lugo (San Froilán).
Some Galician cooks specialize in this dish.
They are usually women, known as polbeiras.
After the modern decline of traditional rural fairs, many polbeiras (octopus restaurants) have sprouted across Galicia.
They tend to be rustic eateries rather than fancy restaurants.
A popover is a light roll made from an egg batter similar to that of Yorkshire pudding, typically baked in muffin tins or dedicated popover pans, which have straight-walled sides rather than angled.
Popovers may be served either as a sweet, topped with fruit and whipped cream; or, butter and jam for breakfast; or, with afternoon tea; or, with meats at lunch and dinner.
Potato salad is a salad dish made from boiled potatoes, usually containing a dressing and a variety of other ingredients, such as boiled eggs, onions, celery, and may include bacon.
In the United States, it is generally considered a side dish and usually accompanies the main course.
Pressed duck (French: canard à la presse, caneton à la presse, canard à la rouennaise, caneton à la rouennaise or canard au sang) is a traditional French dish.
The complex dish is a specialty of Rouen and its creation attributed to an innkeeper from the city of Duclair.
Since the 19th century, it has also been a specialty of the Tour d'Argent restaurant in Paris where it is formally known as the Caneton Tour d'Argent (Tour d'Argent duckling).
It consists of various parts of a duck served in a sauce of its blood and bone marrow, which is extracted by way of a press.
It has been considered "the height of elegance."
Pudding is a type of food.
It can be either a dessert, served after the main meal, or a savoury (salty or spicy) dish, served as part of the main meal.
In the United States, pudding means a sweet, milk-based dessert similar in consistency to egg-based custards, instant custards or a mousse, often commercially set using cornstarch, gelatin or similar coagulating agent such as Jell-O.
The modern American meaning of pudding as dessert has evolved from the original almost exclusive use of the term to describe savoury dishes, specifically those created using a process similar to that used for sausages, in which meat and other ingredients in mostly liquid form are encased and then steamed or boiled to set the contents.
In the United Kingdom, Ireland and some Commonwealth countries, the word pudding is used to describe sweet and savoury dishes.
Savoury puddings include Yorkshire pudding, black pudding, suet pudding and steak and kidney pudding.
Unless qualified, however, pudding usually means dessert and in the United Kingdom, pudding is used as a synonym for dessert.
Puddings made for dessert can be boiled and steamed puddings, baked puddings, bread puddings, batter puddings, milk puddings or even jellies.
In some Commonwealth countries these puddings are known as custards (or curds) if they are egg-thickened, as blancmange if starch-thickened, and as jelly if gelatin-based.
Pudding may also refer to other dishes such as bread pudding and rice pudding, although typically these names derive from their origin as British dishes.
Pumpkin pie is a dessert pie with a spiced, pumpkin-based custard filling.
The pumpkin and pumpkin pie are both a symbol of harvest time, and pumpkin pie is generally eaten during the fall and early winter.
In the United States and Canada it is usually prepared for Thanksgiving, Christmas, and other occasions when pumpkin is in season.
The pie's filling ranges in color from orange to brown and is baked in a single pie shell, usually without a top crust.
The pie is generally flavored with pumpkin pie spice, a blend that includes cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, and cloves or allspice.
The pie is usually prepared with canned pumpkin, but fresh-cooked pumpkin can be used.
Qatayef, katayef, or qata'if (Arabic: قطايف, ), is an Arab dessert commonly served during the month of Ramadan.
It is a sort of sweet dumpling filled with cream or nuts, or a folded pancake, similar to a Scottish crumpet.
Ratatouille (/ˌrætəˈtuːi/ RAT-ə-TOO-ee, French: ; Occitan: ratatolha ) is a French Provençal dish of stewed vegetables that originated in Nice and is sometimes referred to as ratatouille niçoise (French: ).
Recipes and cooking times differ widely, but common ingredients include tomato, garlic, onion, courgette (zucchini), aubergine (eggplant, brinjal), capsicum (bell pepper), and some combination of leafy green herbs common to the region.
Rhubarb pie is a pie with a rhubarb filling.
It is popular in the United Kingdom, where rhubarb has been cultivated since the 1600s, and the leaf stalks eaten since the 1700s.
Besides diced rhubarb, it almost always contains a large amount of sugar to balance the intense tartness of the plant.
The pie is usually prepared with a bottom pie crust and a variety of styles of upper crust.
In the United States, often a lattice-style upper crust is used.
This pie is a traditional dessert in the United States.
It is part of New England cuisine.
Rhubarb has long been a popular choice for pies in the Great Plains region and the Midwest Region, where fruits were not always readily available.
Rhubarb pies and desserts are popular in Canada as well, as the rhubarb plant can survive in cold climates.
Roast chicken is chicken prepared as food by roasting whether in a home kitchen, over a fire, or with a rotisserie (rotary spit).
Generally, the chicken is roasted with its own fat and juices by circulating the meat during roasting, and therefore, are usually cooked exposed to fire or heat with some type of rotary grill so that the circulation of these fats and juices is as efficient as possible.
Roast chicken is a dish that appears in a wide variety of cuisines worldwide.
Roast goose is cooking goose meat using dry heat with hot air enveloping it evenly on all sides.
Many varieties of roast goose appear in cuisines around the world, including Cantonese, European, and Middle Eastern cuisines.
Roasting can enhance its flavor.
In China, yellow-fleshed sweet potatoes are roasted in a large iron drum and sold as street food during winter.
They are called kǎo-báishǔ (烤白薯; "roasted sweet potato") in northern China, wui faan syu (煨番薯) in Cantonese speaking regions, and kǎo-dìguā (烤地瓜; "roasted sweet potato") in Taiwan and Northeast China, as the name of sweet potatoes themselves vary across the sinophone world.
Rose hip soup (Swedish: nyponsoppa) is a Swedish soup made from rose hips.
It is served as a beverage or as a dessert with milk, cream or vanilla ice cream along with small almond biscuits.
Rose hip soup may be eaten for breakfast.
The types of soup for that purpose are generally lower in fruit content and more watery, and may be served with pieces of crisp bread.
In Finnish cuisine, rosolli is a salad eaten mostly as a cold side dish, in particular as part of the traditional Finnish Christmas meal.
Rump steak is a cut of beef.
The rump is the division between the leg and the chine cut right through the aitch bone.
A steak from the top half of an American-cut round steak primal
A British- or Australian-cut steak from the rump primal, largely equivalent to the American sirloin Salmon tartare is prepared with fresh raw salmon and seasonings.
It is commonly spread on a cracker or bread and eaten as an appetizer.
For the usual preparation in Germany, the chopped salmon fillet is salted and peppered, mixed with finely diced shallots or onions, possibly chives or basil and seasoned with vinegar or lemon juice, oil and spices such as dill or coriander.
Saltimbocca, also spelled saltinbocca (Italian for ' jump in the mouth'; UK: /ˌsæltɪmˈbɒkə, -ˈboʊkə/, US: /ˌsɔːl-/, Italian: ), is an Italian dish (also popular in southern Switzerland).
It consists of veal that has been wrapped ("lined") with prosciutto and sage and then marinated in wine, oil or salt water, depending on the region or one's own taste.
The original version of this dish is saltimbocca alla Romana (Italian for ''saltimbocca Roman-style''), which consists of veal, prosciutto and sage, rolled up and cooked in dry white wine and butter.
Marsala is sometimes used.
Also, sometimes the veal and prosciutto are not rolled up but left flat.
An American variation replaces the veal with chicken or pork.
Samgyeopsal (삼겹살; lit. 'three-layer meat'), samgyeopsal-gui (삼겹살구이 lit. 'grilled three-layer meat'), or grilled pork belly is a type of gui (grilled dish) in Korean cuisine.
Samsa (Kazakh: самса, Kyrgyz: самса, Uyghur: سامسا, Uzbek: сомса, somsa, Turkmen: somsa, Tajik: самбӯса, romanized: sambüsa) is a savoury pastry in Central Asian cuisines.
It represents a bun stuffed with meat and sometimes with vegetables.
In the countries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, as well as in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region of China, samsas are almost always baked.
In contrast to South Asian samosas they are rarely fried.
The traditional samsa is often baked in the tandoor, which is a special clay oven.
The dough can be a simple bread dough or a layered pastry dough.
The most common filling for traditional samsa is a mixture of minced lamb and onions, but chicken, minced beef and cheese varieties are also quite common from street vendors.
Samsas with other fillings, such as potato or pumpkin (usually only when in season), can also be found.
In Central Asia, samsas are often sold on the streets as a hot snack.
They are sold at kiosks, where only samsas are made, or alternatively, at kiosks where other fast foods (such as hamburgers) are sold.
Many grocery stores also buy samsas from suppliers and resell them.
Some related or similar dishes include the deep fried Indian snack with a similar name, the samosa.
In Tajik cuisine, Sambusa baraki are meat-filled pastries, usually triangle-shaped.
The filling can be made with ground beef (or the more traditional mutton mixed with tail fat) and then onions, spices, cumin seeds and other seasonings before being baked in a tandyr.
A Scotch egg is a boiled egg wrapped in sausage meat, coated in breadcrumbs and baked or deep-fried.
Scotch woodcock is a British savoury dish consisting of creamy, lightly-scrambled eggs served on toast that has been spread with anchovy paste or Gentleman's Relish, and sometimes topped with chopped herbs and black pepper.
Scotch woodcock was served in the refreshment rooms of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom as late as 1949.
It was also served historically at the colleges of the University of Cambridge and the University of Oxford and it continues to be served at the Oxford and Cambridge Club as an alternative to sweet desserts or cheeseboard.
It was a well-known dish in the Victorian era, and is mentioned in Mrs. Beeton's Book of Household Management.
The name is modelled on Welsh rabbit.
Similar to Welsh rabbit which contains no rabbit meat, the dish has no woodcock, a type of bird, in its ingredients at all.
Scrambled eggs is a dish made from eggs (usually chicken eggs) stirred, whipped, or beaten together typically with salt, butter, oil, and sometimes other ingredients, and heated so that they form into curds
Shakshouka (Arabic: شكشوكة : šakšūkah, also spelled shakshuka or chakchouka) is a Maghrebi dish of eggs poached in a sauce of tomatoes, olive oil, peppers, onion, and garlic, commonly spiced with cumin, paprika and cayenne pepper.
According to Joan Nathan, shakshouka originated in Ottoman North Africa in the mid-16th century after tomatoes were introduced to the region by Hernán Cortés as part of the Columbian exchange.
Shakshouka is a popular dish throughout the Middle East and North Africa.
Shish kebab or shish kebap is a popular meal of skewered and grilled cubes of meat.
It can be found in Mediterranean cuisine and is similar to or synonymous with dishes called shashlik and khorovats, found in the Caucasus region.
It is one of the many types of kebab, a range of meat dishes originating in the Middle East.
In North American English, the word kebab alone often refers to shish kebab, though outside of North America, kebab may also mean doner kebab.
It is traditionally made of lamb but there are also versions with various kinds of meat, poultry, or fish.
In Turkey, shish kebab and the vegetables served with it are grilled separately, normally not on the same skewer.
Smalahove (also called smalehovud, sau(d)ehau(d) or skjelte) is a Western Norwegian traditional dish made from a sheep's head, originally eaten before Christmas.
The name of the dish comes from the combination of the Norwegian words hove and smale.
Hove is a dialectal form of hovud, meaning "head" (cf. Hǫfuð), and smale is a word for sheep, so smalahove literally means "sheep head".
The skin and fleece of the head are torched, the brain removed, and the head is salted, sometimes smoked, and dried.
The head is boiled or steamed for about three hours, and served with mashed swede/rutabaga and potatoes.
It is also traditionally served with akevitt.
In some preparations, the brain is cooked inside the skull and then eaten with a spoon or fried.
Originally, smalahove was typically eaten by the poor.
Smyrna meatballs, known as soutzoukakia Smyrneika (Greek: σουτζουκάκια σμυρναίικα) or İzmir köfte (Turkish), is a Greek and Turkish dish of spicy oblong meatballs with cumin and garlic served in tomato sauce.
This dish was brought to Greece by refugees from Asia Minor.
The Greek version is typically made with minced meat (usually beef, also mixed with lamb or pork), bread crumbs, egg, garlic, and parsley, and generously spiced with cumin, cinnamon, salt, and pepper.
They are floured before being fried in olive oil.
The tomato sauce has tomato, wine, onion, garlic, a bayleaf, salt and pepper, and olive oil.
Soutzoukakia are generally served with pilaf or mashed potatoes.
Turkish recipes for İzmir köfte are very similar, though without pork, and often also include sliced potatoes, diced tomatoes, hot pepper flakes, or other variations.
A soufflé is a baked egg dish originating in France in the early 18th century.
Combined with various other ingredients, it can be served as a savoury main dish or sweetened as a dessert.
The word soufflé is the past participle of the French verb souffler, which means to blow, breathe, inflate or puff.
Spanish omelette or Spanish tortilla is a traditional dish from Spain.
Celebrated as a national dish by Spaniards, it is an essential part of the Spanish cuisine.
It is an omelette made with eggs and potatoes, optionally including onion.
It is often served at room temperature as a tapa.
It is commonly known in Spanish-speaking countries as tortilla de patatas, tortilla de papas, or tortilla española.
Spotted dick (also known as spotted dog or railway cake) is a traditional British steamed pudding, historically made with suet and dried fruit (usually currants or raisins) and often served with custard.
Non-traditional variants include recipes that replace suet with other fats (such as butter), or that include eggs to make something similar to a sponge pudding or cake.
A steak is a thick cut of meat generally sliced across the muscle fibers, sometimes including a bone.
It is normally grilled or fried.
Steak can be diced, cooked in sauce, such as in steak and kidney pie, or minced and formed into patties, such as hamburgers.
Steaks are cut from animals including cattle, bison, buffalo, camel, goat, horse, kangaroo, sheep, ostrich, pigs, turkey, and deer, as well as various types of fish, especially salmon and large fish such as swordfish, shark, and marlin.
For some meats, such as pork, lamb and mutton, chevon, and veal, these cuts are often referred to as chops.
Some cured meat, such as gammon, is commonly served as steak.
Grilled portobello mushroom may be called mushroom steak, and similarly for other vegetarian dishes.
Imitation steak is a food product that is formed into a steak shape from various pieces of meat.
Grilled fruits such as watermelon have been used as vegetarian steak alternatives.
Exceptions, in which the meat is sliced parallel to the fibers, include the skirt steak cut from the plate, the flank steak cut from the abdominal muscles, and the silverfinger steak cut from the loin and including three rib bones.
In a larger sense, fish steaks, ground meat steaks, pork steak, and many more varieties of steak are known.
In the United States, steak cut from cattle is also called "beefsteak".
Steckrübeneintopf is a German dish that, today, is especially common in North Germany.
It generally consists of a stew made from swede, carrots and potatoes in varying proportions and diverse, usually smoked or pickled, types of meat or sausage.
Occasionally special cooking pears used as well.
The stew may be seasoned and refined with salt, pepper, mustard, horseradish, celery, leeks or parsley, etc., according to taste.
Stinky tofu (Chinese: 臭豆腐; pinyin: chòu dòufu) is a Chinese form of fermented tofu that has a strong odor.
It is usually sold at night markets or roadside stands as a snack, or in lunch bars as a side dish, rather than in restaurants.
Traditionally the dish is fermented in a brine with vegetables and meat, sometimes for months.
Modern factory-produced stinky tofu is marinated in brine for one or two days to add odor.
Strammer Max (German pronunciation: ; English: roughly "Strapping Max") is a traditional name applied to various sandwich dishes in German cuisine.
Strapatsada (Greek: στραπατσάδα) is a popular dish in many regions of Greece, especially the Ionian Islands, due to the availability and low cost of its ingredients (fresh tomatoes, eggs and olive oil).
It is often prepared "on the spot" and served for lunch or a light snack; however, it can also be served cold.
The dish is also known as kagianas, koskosela (in Cyclades) or menemeni.
Preparing strapatsada is quick and easy: the chopped or pureed tomatoes are cooked in a frying pan with olive oil and pepper until they become a thick sauce.
The beaten eggs are then added and stirred to a boil.
Feta cheese can optionally be added just before turning off the heat (salt is usually not necessary if feta is used).
Oregano, thyme or other dried herbs can be used as seasoning.
The dish is especially popular in the summer, when fresh tomatoes abound.
The name comes from the Italian word "strapazzare" which means breaking an egg and mix it all while cooking.
Streuselkuchen (German pronunciation: ; "crumb cake"), also known in English-speaking countries as crumb cake, is a cake made of yeast dough covered with a sweet crumb topping referred to as streusel.
The main ingredients for the crumbs are sugar, butter, and flour, which are mixed at a 1:1:2 ratio.
The recipe allegedly originated in the region of Silesia, and is popular in German, Polish and Ashkenazi Jewish cuisines.
A streuselkuchen is usually a flat cake made on a baking tray and cut into oblong pieces.
It should be flat – about 1 inch (25 mm) thick – with crumbs making up about half of its height.
The original version uses yeast dough, however a short crust is possible.
A puff pastry at the bottom turns it into a prasselkuchen.
Many variants of the cake are prepared with fillings such as fruit (mostly of sour taste, e.g.
apples, gooseberries, sour cherries, rhubarb), poppy seeds or creme or using a shortening-based dough.
The strip steak (sirloin in Britain, Australia, and South Africa) is a cut of beef steaks from the short loin of a cow.
It consists of a muscle that does little work, the longissimus, making the meat particularly tender, although not as tender as the nearby psoas major or tenderloin.
Unlike the tenderloin, the longissimus is a sizable muscle, allowing it to be cut into larger portions.
Stuffed peppers is a dish common in many cuisines.
It consists of hollowed or halved peppers filled with any of a variety of fillings, often including meat, vegetables, cheese, rice, or sauce.
The dish is usually assembled by filling the cavities of the peppers and then cooking.
Sushi (すし, 寿司, 鮨, 鮓, pronounced  or ) is a Japanese dish of prepared vinegared rice (鮨飯, sushi-meshi), usually with some sugar and salt, a variety of ingredients (ねた, neta), such as seafood — often raw — and vegetables.
Styles of sushi and its presentation vary widely, but the one key ingredient is "sushi rice", also referred to as shari (しゃり), or sumeshi (酢飯).
The creator of modern sushi is believed to be Hanaya Yohei, who invented nigiri-zushi, a type of sushi most known today, in which seafood is placed on hand-pressed vinegared rice, around 1824 in the Edo period (1603–1867).
It was the fast food of the chōnin class in the Edo period.
Sushi is traditionally made with medium-grain white rice, though it can be prepared with brown rice or short-grain rice.
It is very often prepared with seafood, such as squid, eel, yellowtail, salmon, tuna or imitation crab meat.
Many types of sushi are vegetarian.
It is often served with pickled ginger (gari), wasabi, and soy sauce.
Daikon radish or pickled daikon (takuan) are popular garnishes for the dish.
Sushi is sometimes confused with sashimi, a dish that consists of thinly sliced raw fish or occasionally meat, without sushi rice.
Svíčková, or svíčková na smetaně (pronounced ), is a Czech meat dish and one of the most popular Czech and Slovak meals.
Svíčková is the Czech word for tenderloin, and this dish is traditionally beef tenderloin prepared with vegetables (carrots, parsley root, celeriac and onion), spiced with black pepper, allspice, bay leaf and thyme, and boiled with double cream, though in practice other cuts of beef may sometimes be used, especially falešná svíčková ('false tenderloin') which is a cut from the front shoulder equivalent to jumeau à bifteck in French, or girello di spalla in Italian, cuisine.
It is generally served with houskové knedlíky (bread dumplings).
Szczecin paprikash (Polish: Paprykarz szczeciński), also known as Polish paprikash, is a Polish canned fish spread made from ground fish, rice, tomato paste and vegetable oil, seasoned with onion, salt and spices.
It has the form of a reddish-brown paste with visible rice grains.
The recipe, inspired by a West African dish sampled by Polish fishermen, was developed in the 1960s at a state-owned far-sea fishing and fish processing company based in the port city of Szczecin, in northwestern Poland.
It is a popular snack, especially with students, and remains a symbol of Szczecin's local identity.
Tamago kake gohan (卵かけご飯, "egg on rice") is a popular Japanese breakfast food consisting of cooked Japanese rice topped or mixed with raw egg and soy sauce.
Tamagoyaki (卵焼き or 玉子焼き, literally 'grilled egg') is a type of Japanese omelette made by rolling together several layers of fried beaten eggs.
It is often prepared in a rectangular omelette pan called a makiyakinabe or tamagoyakiki.
The word "tamago" means egg in Japanese, and the word "yaki" means to be cooked over direct heat.
Tequeño is a fried breaded cheese stick or a spear of bread dough with queso blanco (fresh cheese) stuffed in the middle, and is a popular meal or snack in Venezuela.
To prepare it, the dough is wrapped around a cheesestick and formed into a breadstick so it can be fried in oil or sometimes oven-baked.
Tequeños can be eaten for breakfast, as a side appetizer, or as a snack food at parties and weddings.
On April 21, 2023, it was declared a cultural heritage of Venezuela.
The snack is named after Los Teques after being invented in the kitchen of one of the wealthy families living there.
Toad in the hole or sausage toad is a traditional English dish consisting of sausages in Yorkshire pudding batter, usually served with onion gravy and vegetables.
Historically, the dish has also been prepared using other meats, such as rump steak and lamb's kidney.
Tripes à la mode de Caen is a traditional dish of the cuisine of Normandy, France.
In its original form this dish consisted of all four chambers of a beef cattle's stomach, part of the large intestine (this was outlawed in France in 1996), plus the hooves and bones, cut up and placed on a bed of carrots, onions, leeks, garlic, cloves, peppercorns, a bouquet garni, a bottle of cider and a glass of calvados in a tripière (a special earthenware pot for cooking tripe).
Some sources include a large quantity of blanched beef fat.
This was covered and hermetically sealed with dough and simmered in the oven for fifteen hours.
The hoofs, bones and bouquet garni are removed before serving with a sprinkling of some more cider.
Although this dish is prepared in Normandy throughout the year, locals believe that the dish is best in Autumn when the apple trees are bearing.
Some of the fruit falls to the ground and is eaten by the cattle, along with the rich grasses of the season, imparting a distinctive flavour to the animal.
Sidoine Benoît was a Benedictine monk of the 14th Century at the Abbaye-aux-Hommes in Caen, in the Calvados département in the Normandy region of France.
Local legend credits him with inventing the dish.
It was the use of cider and apple brandy in food that was Benoît's inspiration and contribution to French cuisine, making the insipid tripe dishes of the monks palatable.
Legend has it that William the Conqueror, Normandy's most famous notable, enjoyed a precursor of this dish, tripe sprinkled with apple juice.
The dish has a very codified recipe, preserved by the guild of "La tripière d'or" that organises a competition every year to elect the world's best tripes à la mode de Caen maker.
Turtle soup, also known as terrapin soup, is a soup or stew made from the meat of turtles.
Several versions of the soup exist in different cultures, and it is often viewed as a delicacy.
A veggie burger is a hamburger made with a patty that does not contain meat, or the patty of such a hamburger.
The patty may be made from ingredients like beans (especially soybeans and tofu), nuts, grains, seeds, or fungi such as mushrooms or mycoprotein.
The essence of the veggie burger patty has existed in various Eurasian cuisines for millennia, including in the form of grilled or fried meatless discs, or as koftas, a commonplace item in Indian cuisine.
These may be made of entirely vegetarian ingredients such as legumes or other plant-derived proteins.
Some popular brands of veggie burger include the Boca Burger, the Gardenburger, Morningstar Farms, and Quorn.
In the 2010s, realistic imitations were developed, led by the companies Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods.
Vichyssoise (/ˌvɪʃiˈswɑːz/ VISH-ee-SWAHZ, French: ) is a soup made of cooked and puréed leeks, potatoes, onions and cream.
It is served chilled and garnished with chopped chives.
It was invented in the first quarter of the 20th century by Louis Diat, a French-born cook working as head chef of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in New York.
Vorschmack or forshmak (Yiddish: פאָרשמאק; from archaic German Vorschmack, "foretaste" or "appetizer") is an originally East European dish made of salty minced fish or meat.
Different variants of this dish are especially common in Ashkenazi Jewish and Finnish cuisine.
Some varieties are also known in Ukrainian, Polish and Russian cuisine.
Welsh rarebit or Welsh rabbit (/ˈrɛərbɪt/ or /ˈræbɪt/) is a dish consisting of a hot cheese-based sauce served over slices of toasted bread.
The original 18th-century name of the dish was the jocular "Welsh rabbit", which was later reinterpreted as "rarebit", as the dish contains no rabbit.
Variants include English rabbit, Scotch rabbit, buck rabbit, golden buck, and blushing bunny.
Though there is no strong evidence that the dish originated in Welsh cuisine, it is sometimes identified with the Welsh caws pobi 'baked cheese', documented in the 1500s.
In West Slavic countries, as well as in Belarus and in Ukraine , fermented cereals, such as rye, wheat, or oatmeal, are used to make soups.
In Poland and parts of Belarus, rye is traditional for making żurek; a variant made with wheat flour instead of rye is known in Poland as barszcz biały ("white barszcz").
Fermented oatmeal is a common ingredient in Belarus and in some regions of Poland.
Fermented wheat or sourdough soups are also found in other western Slavic cuisines, in particular in the Slovak (kyslovka), Silesian (Sauermehlsuppe) and Czech (kyselo) cuisines.
Wiener schnitzel (/ˈviːnər ˈʃnɪtsəl/ VEE-nər SHNIT-səl; German: Wiener Schnitzel , 'Viennese cutlet'), sometimes spelled Wienerschnitzel, is a type of schnitzel made of a thin, breaded, pan-fried veal cutlet.
It is one of the best known specialities of Viennese cuisine, and one of the national dishes of Austria.
Wurstsalat (German: , literally sausage salad) is a tart sausage salad prepared with distilled white vinegar, oil and onions.
A variation of the recipe adds strips of pickled gherkin.
It is generally made from boiled sausage like Lyoner, stadtwurst, Regensburger Wurst or extrawurst.
It is a traditional snack in Southern Germany, Alsace, Switzerland and Austria (where it is known as Saure Wurst, lit. "sour sausage").
To prepare the dish, the sausage is cut into thin slices or strips and placed, along with raw onion (sliced into rings or diced), in a vinegar and oil marinade, lightly seasoned with salt, pepper, and sometimes paprika.
Common additional ingredients are finely cut gherkins, radishes, parsley or chives.
Wurstsalat is generally served with bread and sometimes fried potatoes.
Popular variants are the Schwäbischer Wurstsalat (Swabian wurstsalat), which uses one half blood sausage, and Schweizer Wurstsalat (Swiss wurstsalat), which like the Straßburger Wurstsalat (Strasbourg wurstsalat) or Elsässer Wurstsalat (Alsacian wurstsalat) also contains Emmental cheese and uses the traditional Swiss cervelat instead of Lyoner sausage.
Yakitori (Japanese: 焼き鳥) (literally 'grilled bird') is a Japanese type of skewered chicken.
Its preparation involves skewering the meat with kushi (串), a type of skewer typically made of steel, bamboo, or similar materials.
Afterwards, it is grilled over a charcoal fire.
During or after cooking, the meat is typically seasoned with tare sauce or salt.
The term is sometimes used informally for kushiyaki (grilled and skewered foods) in general.
Zabaione (Italian pronunciation: ) or zabaglione (UK: /ˌzæbəlˈjoʊni/, US: /ˌzɑːb-/, Italian: ) is an Italian dessert, or sometimes a beverage, made with egg yolks, sugar, and a sweet wine (usually Moscato d'Asti or Marsala wine).
Some versions of the recipe incorporate spirits such as cognac.
The dessert version is a light custard, whipped to incorporate a large amount of air.
Since the 1960s, in restaurants in areas of the United States with large Italian populations, zabaione is usually served with strawberries, blueberries, peaches, etc., in a champagne coupe.
In France, it is called sabayon, while its Italian name is zabaione or zabaglione (or zabajone, an archaic spelling).
The dessert is popular in Argentina and Uruguay, where it is known as sambayón (from the Piedmontese sambajon) and is a popular ice cream flavour.
In Colombia, the name is sabajón.
In Venezuela, there is also a related egg-based dessert drink called ponche crema.
This is consumed almost exclusively during Christmas time.
Zwieback (German: ) is a form of rusk eaten in Austria, Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, North Macedonia, Poland, Scandinavia, Serbia, Slovenia, Switzerland and Turkey.
It is a type of crisp, sweetened bread, made with eggs and baked twice.
It originated in East Prussia.
According to Fabian Scheidler, Albrecht von Wallenstein invented zwieback to feed his mercenary army during the Thirty Years' War.
The Mennonites brought Zwieback to the Russian Empire; before the Russian Revolution, when many emigrated to the west, they brought Zwieback to Canada, the United States and other parts of the world.
There are two types of zwieback.
One type is made by pinching round pieces of dough, placing one piece on top of another, pressing them together by pushing a finger down through both pieces.
It is then baked and served as warm soft rolls.
This type is identified with Mennonites.
The other type is a bread sliced before it is baked a second time, which produces crisp, brittle slices that closely resemble melba toast.
Zwieback is commonly used to feed teething babies and as the first solid food for patients with an upset stomach.
The name comes from German zwei ("two") or zwie ("twi-"), and backen, meaning "to bake".
Zwieback hence literally translates to "twice-baked".
The French and Italian names, respectively, biscotte and fette biscottate have the same origin, biscotto (biscuit), which also means twice ("bis-") baked (-"cotto").
The Slovene name is prepečenec which would imply baked over ordinary or overbaked.
The Serbo-Croatian name is dvopek which, again, is literally twice (dvo) baked (pek).
Zōni (雑煮 or ぞうに), often with the honorific "o-" as o-zōni, is a Japanese soup containing mochi rice cakes.
The dish is strongly associated with the Japanese New Year and its tradition of osechi ceremonial foods.
The preparation of zōni varies both by household and region.
